[00:00:34]
Stand by Good afternoon.
This Meeting of the Huntsville City Council will come to order.
I am President Pro Tem Bill Kling, and with me are council members David
Little and Michelle Watkins.
Excuse me.
The purpose of this special session is for the purpose of canvassing the
returns of the municipal runoff election that was held on September 22nd.
I am now going to turn the program meeting rather over to the city clerk
for the county of provisional ballots.
Good afternoon, counsel and to all joining online and in the council chambers.
Today we will be counting the provisional ballots that require further review
by the board of registrars.
Council, there were 7 provisional ballots,
and of those 75 have been accepted to be counted towards our official results
of the September 22nd runoff election.
And at this time, we will begin counting those ballots,
and I will announce each candidate.
You can explain how Counsel, I will pass the ballot down to you.
For our first ballot, Jenny Robinson.
For a 2nd ballot, Jenny Robinson.
For our 3rd ballot, Jenny Robinson.
For our 4th ballot, Liliana Pender and counsel,
for your records, this ballot has been torn and we will have to manually
load the results.
It will not feed in the DS 200 machine.
It will when we update the official numbers that you see on the screen.
IT is here present and he will update manually before I read the final results.
And for our 5th and final ballot, which this ballot council is also torn,

[00:05:02]
we will load the results manually, and it is Liliana Pender.
And that will conclude the reading of all of our provisional ballots.
And at this time, we will allow our IT team to update the official election
night reporting system, and then I will read the final numbers into the
record.
Counsel, while we wait on the election night reporting system to update,
Councilman Klean asked me to explain this process,
and I think it's important to understand provisional ballots.
If they are accepted, it means that they voted in the precinct and it needed
further review by the board of registrars.
Oftentimes, someone may be at the wrong precinct and those are rejected.
You must be in your correct precinct in order for your ballot to be cast.
And also, you could be missing an ID and you have an opportunity at a later
date to present that to the board of registrars.
Also, if you vote absentee in my office, but Because of mail or for whatever
reason, your absentee ballot did not make it back in time,
you still have an opportunity for your ballot to be cast by voting provisional
in the precinct.
And so we take time to work with the board of registrars to ensure that
every vote counts and there's a thorough review,
uh, before today's canvassing.
Councilor McLean, is there anything else you wanted me to explain?
OK.
Any other questions from the council members?
OK.
We will wait on the system to update as we close the polls.
For those who might have turned into Tuned into this broadcast that we are
having, we are in the process of counting the provisional ballots that were
not counted as part of the.
District 3 runoff election that was held and we're getting the official

[00:10:01]
numbers and the final tally will be totaled up shortly.
Hm Thank you, Tom.
Before we get started, I do want to say to the Madison County staff,
thank you to the board of registrars, IT probate Judge Frank Barger and
his staff, ESNS, and our circuit clerk for their support during this 2026
municipal election cycle.
Um, it would not be possible without the collaboration,
and I just want to on the record thank them.
And thank my entire team that's in here today and those that are absent
and on a well-deserved vacation.
Uh, thank you and to the council for being here today as we wrap up.
Our results are ready and at this time, council,
for the record, Liliana Pender received 47.64% with 3,436 votes.
Jenny Robinson, 52.36% with a total of 3,776 votes.
And at this time, council, I will officially turn it over to you for new
business items for consideration.

[00:15:00]
Thank you.
I might add for those who are in the council chambers,
the individual box totals are a point on the billboard over there for your
inspection.
Uh, council members, uh, is there a motion concerning OK.
Is there a motion concerning declaring Jenny Robinson,
District 3 City council, City of Huntsville,
elected to her position for a term beginning November 2,
2026?
Move to approve.
Second motion has been made and properly seconded.
Discussion.
All those in favor signify by saying aye,
aye, and the chair votes aye, uh, hereby declare Jenny Robinson is the winner
of the District 3 city council race of the city of Huntsville,
Alabama.
If there's no other business, we're adjourned.
Thank you.
