[00:00:17]
Let's do it.
Advisory council, people didn't know they were on the agenda.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, that's giving us 5 minutes.
Welcome everyone.
It is Thursday, June 11th, 2026, 5:30 p.m.,
and we will call this meeting of the Huntsville City Council to order.
We are met in the chambers in Huntsville,
Alabama.
We welcome all those who have joined us here in person and who are watching
virtually, and we would like to extend a special welcome to Amy Wallace,
who is our intern in the city council office.
This is her first council meeting.
We have enjoyed having her here and.
Um, we'll enjoy working with her this summer,
so welcome, Amy.
I also have been asked to make an announcement that a wallet and keys were
left in the lobby, and if you are missing your wallet and keys,
please check with the officer at the security desk.
Um, he's holding them for you.
So welcome again.
Uh, as is our practice, we will begin with an invocation offered by one
of our Huntsville, Alabama public safety chaplains.
Tonight we are joined by Chaplain Don Eadie,
and after the invocation we will have Mr.
Little, um, lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
So all who are willing and able, please stand for the invocation and pledge
of allegiance.
Father, we're so grateful today for your gift of grace to us,
the gift gift of life and strength, the ability to get up and get around,
how thankful we are for that.
We pray for our fellow citizens who are not able to do that today,
not able to get up and get around.
We pray your grace on them that you would bless them this evening.
Father, we pray for, uh, patience and wisdom as we interact with one another
and Lord, I pray especially for discernment for the council.
As they wrestle with the issues that are before them on the agenda tonight
and Lord we just want to please you and honor you as we love you and love
one another we pray in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
Ephesians to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Thank you, Chaplain Edie.
Thank you, Council Member Little.
Um, and I've failed to establish that we have all council members present
and also Mayor Battle.
Uh, council members, uh, on the agenda there are a couple of changes that
we need to make you aware of.
The first is that item 7A has been deleted presentation by the Huntsville,
uh, Police Citizens Advisory Council.
We will look forward to hearing from them in July.
We are also deleting at the request of the sponsors item 200 and 20X.
So please make that change on your agendas.
Are there any other changes that need to be made to the agenda?
Seeing none, is there a motion to approve the agenda as uh it has presented.
Uh, motion from motion from Mr.
Little second from, uh, from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate, I opposed the motion or the agenda is approved,
uh, with those, uh, changes.
Council members, you also have the minutes of the regular meeting of the
City council held on May 28, 2026 before you.
Are there any additions or changes to be made to those minutes?
Seeing none, the minutes will we stand approved.
We have no special recognitions from the mayor.
The council has one special recognition.
6A is resolution recognizing the accomplishments of the University of Alabama
in Huntsville's UAH eSports program.
The chair moves for approval.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate I oppose.
The motion carries, and I have the pleasure of presenting this,
um, resolution.
Yeah, eSports members, if you will please come.

[00:05:02]
This is a big team because it actually represents 4 teams,
right?
Um, so, like, if we're I'll be down here with you.
So let me just share with you, um, this resolution because some of you may
not even know what eSports are.
Whereas the city council and the mayor of the city of Huntsville,
Alabama wish to recognize the outstanding accomplishments of the University
of Alabama in Huntsville UAH eSports and its student athletes for their
exceptional performances during the 2025-2026 competitive eSports season.
And whereas UAH eSports competed in the National eSports Collegiate Conference
NECC, one of the nation's premier collegiate e-Sports organizations,
and demonstrated remarkable success this season with 9 of its 27 teams qualifying
for the national tournament.
And whereas 4 UAH eSports teams advanced to the deepest stages of their
respective national playoff brackets, showcasing the program's talent,
dedication, and teamwork on a national stage.
And whereas UAH's Valorant Blue team captured the NECC national championship
on May 4th following an already impressive season in which the team also
secured a regional championship victory, further establishing itself among
the nation's elegiate collegiate eSports.
Teams and whereas UAH's Marvel rivals Blue team earned a place among the
top competitors nationally advancing to compete against California State
University Sacramento for 3rd place in the national tournament bracket after
finishing 4th in the regional playoff competition,
whereas UAH's CounterStrike White team advanced to compete for an NECC national
championship title after also earning a regional championship victory earlier
in the year.
There's more.
Whereas UAH's League of Legends blue team also won a regional championship
title in the 2025 season, and whereas within the UAH eSports team program,
blue teams represent varsity level competition and white teams represent
junior varsity level competition.
And the success achieved by both levels of teams reflects the continued
growth and national prominence of eSports at the University of Alabama in
Huntsville.
Now therefore, be it resolved that the city council and the mayor of the
city of Huntsville, Alabama do hereby recognize and commend.
The accomplishments of UAH eSports and its student competitors and extend
immense appreciation to the pride and distinction these teams have brought
to the university and the Huntsville community during their commitment at
sportsmanship, and competitive excellence.
Join me in congratulating our UAHE sports teams.
And now let me turn this over to Ephron Hummel,
who will tell us a little bit more about what we're rep what what this really
represents.
Absolutely, thank you so much for the, uh,
beautiful words.
Um, we are very honored to be here in front of you all today and in front
of all of the viewers watching as well.
Um, UAH eSports or the eSports Club at UAH,
uh, is an absolute staple of the UAH campus.
Um, we're very glad to be able to do what we do.
Currently we have about 130 competitive members across our 27 teams,
so it is one of the largest clubs on campus and we're very proud of that
and we're very proud of these teams as well for excelling in their playoff
divisions, um, and committing the time as well required,
uh, in order to practice and, uh, scrimmage and stay at the highest levels
of competition.
Uh, these athletes that stay, uh, stand before you are the best of the best,
uh, and we're very happy to be here.
Um, down the line I will introduce, um, a few of our different teams.
So, uh, Prem right here is one of the representatives from our League of
Legends team.
Uh, these two right here are, uh, new officers,
uh, for the eSports program.
Uh, here in the middle is our, uh, two representatives from Valorant,
Marvel rivals standing here, uh, 3 to the right,
and finally Counter-Strike at the very end,
uh.
I got the pleasure of coaching our Counter-Strike team as well,
uh, and I forgot to introduce myself.
I'm sorry, my name is, uh, Ethan Hummel.
I am the student director of eSports at UAH,
uh, and so I've been very, um, pleased to have this position to be able
to lead in an advisory level, um, for the club and,
and direct, uh, what the new officers.
Are able to do so, uh, thank you so much for this opportunity.
Well, thank you for your service to these team members,
and I will also point out that my grandson Alex Austin was on the national
championship Blue Valorant team.
So that's a special thing for us.
So again, join me in congratulating our eSports team.

[00:11:20]
We do a lot of important things at these meetings,
but I think nothing is as important as recognizing the good work that's
being done by a lot of different people in our community,
uh, we have, um.
No announcements and presentations.
Uh, no matters with legal representatives,
and this brings us to public hearings to be held.
Is that?
So sorry.
Uh, 9A is a public hearing on a resolution authorizing the demolition of
an unsafe building constituting a public nuisance located at 303804 Melody
Road Northeast, Huntsville, Alabama, and consideration of a resolution pertaining
to the same.
Mr.
Irwin, uh, yes, council members, Mayor Battle,
Scott Irwin Community Development Department.
This is an appeal of community development findings related to the property
on um Melody Drive, uh, the uh resolution and pardon me,
appeal of the community development findings and a public hearing on a resolution
authorizing the demolition.
Of the unsafe building constituted a public nuisance at 3804 Melody Drive,
the owners and entry parties were notified of the public hearing by certified
mail and first class mail.
The entry parties indicated they intended to appear before you to present
any objections.
We have photographs of the property for your review on the screen.
The property was initially inspected by an independent contractor who determined
the structure was not structurally feasible for repair.
It totaled out a 98% loss.
An official notice was sent by certified and first class mail requesting
demolition and removal of the structure by April 22,
2026.
No action was taken by the owners or industry parties,
so we're here before you tonight requesting authorization to abate this
public nuisance.
Thank you, Mr.
Irwin.
The public hearing is now open.
I believe the property owners are here if you'd like to approach the podium
here.
And if you'll give us your name and address for the record,
please.
Thank you so much.
Uh, my name is Leroy Barley, 9717 Rock Creek Road,
Raleigh, North Carolina.
Thank you.
OK, proceed.
Um, how you doing?
We're here, um, as the aforementioned, to,
um, really ask for consideration of, of more time and assessing the situation
with this property we have.
Um, contact and talked to several contractors who have looked at it externally
and because of the notice on it, etc.
um, um, no one has gone in it, um, to to check and what we're,
we're one of the things we'd like to ask is to be able to proceed to go
inside.
We have, um, stayed away from doing that because of the notice did not want
to go in.
Uh, other thing is travel.
My sister and I, uh, I think was mentioned that we live out of state,
uh, quite a distance away.
Um, and, um, just getting here can be difficult.
Uh, we do have family who has kept a watch on it.
And things of that nature and make sure the property has stayed closed,
which it has, um, etc.
um, so that is kinda where we are, um, um,
with that, uh, one of the things that has as the people we have discussed
this with as far as contractors, no one has given us or counseled us in
that it needs to be torn down.
Um, everyone has been very encouraging saying no,
this, this can be saved, uh, but they have wanted to go inside and.
Uh, we just have not gone in because we didn't think we were permitted to
at this time with the, the notice and, and what have you.
Uh, myself and my, my older brother, uh, we have gone in it in times prior
to the notice being said that you could not,
and it does look like, you know, being around these things before a property
that could be saved, even though there is,
we know it's great work, uh, that is needed and there'd be a cost,
um, post that or past that.
Um, once we determine what that cost would be,

[00:15:01]
how extensive, we would like them to make a decision on how we proceed from
there, um, we just don't think it, it is necessary to tear it down without
an adequate assessment of what would be needed and get full numbers on that.
Uh, we just have not been able to conclude that,
uh, currently because we have not been able to get inside it properly,
we've only been able to assess it from the outside,
uh, with those that, uh, uh, that have been able to look at it this far.
Thank you, Mr.
Barley.
Is there anyone else who wishes to comment?
Anyone else wishing to comment, um, then the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve the resolution?
Move approve, uh, motion from Mr.
Little second from the chair.
Um, now discussion questions, Mr.
Irwin, um, do you know if the house is safe for anyone to go inside and
inspect it?
So when a property has been deemed unsafe,
so you're not allowed to enter that property because it'd be a danger or
liability.
So at this point, no, based on that, that fact,
it is not suitable for someone to enter.
So it's not structurally sound, correct?
OK.
Um, has anyone from the family been in contact with you?
Yes, I spoke with the family back in April,
uh, and explained the process that we would do to move forward on our position
with the property was beyond.
A renovation or rehabilitation type, uh, you know,
activity and based on the independent contractor assessment,
which was a 98% loss, as staff, we deemed that it was appropriate for this
property to be demolished.
Mhm Um, so, even with the notice not to enter,
they couldn't enter with a different contractor and one of,
uh, community development member.
So yes, the, the, the contractor could, uh,
but not, not for individuals could not it would have to be someone that's
license able to evaluate whatever the necessary,
uh, structural integrity aspects are being evaluated are.
OK, so in the intervening time between when it's supposed to be demolished
and.
Today.
If they could get a contractor in there before it's torn down and they decide
that it is salvageable, what would happen?
Yeah, our position as staff that it still is beyond that.
However, that we could arrange for them to,
to review that.
Um, we're still going forward and asking your authorization to abate the
nuisance.
So, OK, so thank you.
And what's your timeline on that?
So we, we normally takes a minimum of 30 days depending on your public works,
uh, schedule going forward.
It is a busy time.
It could go slightly more than that, but everyone typically does have a
minimum of 30 days before we are actually able to mobilize and move forward
with the demolition.
Mr.
Kling, question or just an idea to throw out on the table since the only
time we really get to talk about these things is,
is in this venue.
Uh, what if we were to give approval for Mr.
Irwin to proceed as he sees fit, including demolition,
time extension, or whatever, uh, what we've done in the past,
we basically give him the hammer and we trust his judgment.
If it looks like there's some light at the end of the tunnel,
uh.
But at the same time to counter that, to throw out,
uh, how, how would the people who live in that neighborhood feel about what
I think is a pretty bad blight, uh, do they want to have this extend longer
or, um.
That we have been hearing any complaints from people in that neighborhood,
so that's a double-edged sword I'm throwing out.
So your proposal is to move forward with no,
my, well, actually I'm just kind of throwing out on the table both arguments
to see if there's some consensus on the council as far as what to do,
uh, Mr.
Meredith, I believe you have a comment.
If the only way to do that is for you to put up a motion uh for an amendment
and us to vote on that.
Uh, well, and that's what I was trying to ascertain.
So we have a motion right now on the floor to proceed with demolition,
but as I understand, that will not take place for 30 days.
And in that 30 days time period, uh, if the Barley family had a contractor,
you would permit that contractor to go into the building to make an evaluation.
That's great.
We would handle this as we do all of our public nuisance activities.
We would work with the owner for, uh, the most equitable way to get this
property secured and removed if needed.
But if there's an argument to be made by an independent contractor that
it is ready and able to be renovated with a budget and a timeline,
then we would certainly be willing to look at that.
Any other questions or comments, Ms.
Ho?
They have 30 days before it's gonna be demolition scheduled to be demolition.
So during that time frame, hopefully, um,
Mr.
Barley can get with you and schedule a time for a contract to come out and
then that way we would know what even if we vote if it's a possibility for
the house to be redeemed.

[00:20:00]
Absolutely, OK, absolutely, OK, OK.
Any other comments?
Oh, all in favor, please indicate, uh, any opposed?
The motion carries, and then Mr.
Barley, we will let you meet with Mr.
Irwin to work out how you can get that contractor,
uh, to take a look.
Thank you for being with us tonight.
Safe travels back to Raleigh.
We have several public hearings to be set.
10A is a resolution to set a public hearing on the zoning of 2.41 acres
of land lying on the west side of Old Big Cove Road and south of Worley
Drive to residents to district and introduction of an ordinance pertaining
to the same is their motion to set the hearing for July 23,
2026.
Second motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate, uh, any opposed.
Motion carries.
10B is a resolution to set a public hearing on the zoning of 2.47 acres
of land lying on the south side of old Highway 20 and east of Greenbrier
Parkway.
To commercial industrial park district and introduction of an ordinance
pertaining the same is there motion to set the hearing for July 23,
2026.
Motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor please vindicate.
Uh, any opposed?
Motion carries.
10C is a resolution to set a public hearing on the rezoning of 505.3 acres
of land lying on north of Bob Wade Lane east and west of Mount Lebanon Road
from residents to and residents to B districts to planned development housing
district LUI 45 and 56 and the introduction of an ordinance pertaining to
the same.
Is there a motion to set the hearing for July 23,
2026?
Motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate the motion carries the hearing is set.
That concludes our public hearings and we have no agenda related comments,
so that brings us to comments from Mayor Battle.
Mayor Battle.
No, I'll pass on my comments tonight.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
We will now have comments from council members,
and we will begin with council member John Meredith.
I'll pass on mine as well.
And next we have council comments from council member Michelle Watkins.
OK, um, I have a couple of, um, people I need to thank.
On Sunday, as I was getting out of church,
I received a phone call that Mederus Road in Shepherd had flooded.
And uh I got on the phone with Shane Davis,
not Shane Davis, Chris McNeice, and uh when I got to the scene,
fire department was there and they were trying to get the drainage cleared
out.
I wanna thank the fire department, House Police department,
Chris McNee and Public Works for acting fast and getting the road cleared.
I really appreciate their attentive attention to the details and to making
sure that the residents were safe.
So thank you so much for that.
Um, Trevor Lacy basketball camp will be on Saturday,
June 20th from 9 to 12 at John Hunt Park.
There's a registration link on the city website.
Um, if you are interested, ages 10 to 17,
please register your children.
It's completely free.
There's no cost.
Cost involved, um, health fair in District One will be June 27th from 9
to 12, and it will be at the Johnson Legacy Center,
another event that's free to the community.
You can come out, um, talk to some healthcare professionals,
and we would love to have you there.
Thank you so much.
01 last thing, I think the city lost yesterday Team Redstone,
so either way, whoever won, I won at the same time.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
Uh, Mr.
Clean, thank you, Madam President.
Ms.
Watkins, which dug behind which dugout were you sitting?
I was There you go.
OK, you're, you're, you're fine.
She's Switzerland, Switzerland.
OK, uh, Madam President, I'd like to ask,
is Mr.
Davis here by chance?
Shane?
No.
We all, and I'm right up there with everybody,
we all love road surfaces.
Everybody knows that that's the most exciting thing,
uh.
I just want to express a concern to Shane that maybe you could talk to the
folks about.
There are several streets within the district that were part of the fiscal
year 2025, phase three and four.
The streets have not been resurfaced.
The concrete curbing and stuff have been put down,
but I noticed over the last couple of weeks just walking around different
neighborhoods, uh, a couple of these.
Uh, that are supposed to have been done again with FY 25,
Holiday, Eustace, Cyrus, uh, Randolph, Harwood,
Poinciana, Pansy, Town and Country, which I think is being worked on today.
And Hillmont and Fennel, most of those, but not all of those are part of

[00:25:01]
the FY 25 contracts, and it's been a little bit of a hardship for the residents
because all the concrete is laid, you know,
things are kind of messy, and the asphalt person hadn't come,
and I just want to ask if, if you guys could check with,
I guess, the contracts you got and see if there's a way we can accelerate
the, the contractor on that.
But again.
Not all of those, but most of those were FY 25 contracts,
and you would expect those would be done before.
We even got into the FY 26 contracts, which certainly I'm glad anyway we
can get any of those accelerated.
Yeah, so good evening, Sam Davis, director of Urban Economic Development
Councilman clean after the meeting.
I'll get that list.
Uh, sometimes what will happen is they, uh,
public works has to wait on streets to get cleared.
Huntsville Utilities is upgrading a gas line,
water line, or the sewer department.
That could be the case.
But what I'll do is I'll get that list from you.
I'll coordinate with Mr.
McNee at Public Works, and we'll get you an update in the morning.
I've been hearing from people, but I, I've explained to them that the,
uh, The money's already been appropriated the contract,
so it's not, it's not a question of if it's gonna be done,
it's when, uh, but certainly people are, shall we say,
eager to have the, as I would be too.
But we'll get with Mr.
McNee in the morning and get you an update,
sir.
OK, thank you, sir.
You're welcome.
That's all, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
We'll now hear from, uh, council member David Little.
Thank you, Madam President.
Uh, just be real quick and brief, I'd like to thank Public Works,
the police department, traffic.
Um, our engineering and inspections, uh, departments for all being,
uh, quick to respond to some citizen needs over the last few weeks.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Little.
Um, I acknowledged, um, Amy Wallace, our city intern,
uh, in our council department at the beginning of the meeting,
but I wanna extend a special welcome to all our interns.
All our departments have many interns here from many different schools,
colleges, universities, and, uh, they are going to have a wonderful summer
here.
Many of them, and in fact, in our office we have hired two of our interns,
um.
On our regular staff, so I know it's a, it,
it will be a great experience for them, and we look forward to having them
continue to serve with the city.
I would like to remind everyone about the Independence Day celebration on
June twenty-seventh that will be held at Ditto Landing.
It is sort of the kickoff for a week that will celebrate the 250th anniversary
of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and so on June 27th,
gates will open at Ditto Landing at 5 o'clock.
There is no admission charge, but to park it is $5 per car and cash only,
so keep that in mind.
Festivities start at 6 o'clock with uh concerts,
food trucks, and fireworks will be at 9 o'clock.
So please join us for the Independence Day celebration at Ditto Landing
on June 27th.
Again, it's gonna kick off that whole week of,
uh, of events which will culminate on June July 4th,
uh, parade downtown here, uh, in, uh, the city of Huntsville,
uh, starting I believe at 5 o'clock that evening with fireworks to follow.
So lots of fun things planned for the 250th.
We'll go on now with the finance committee report,
Mr.
Meredith.
14A is a resolution authorizing expenditures for payment.
I move for authorization and approval of expenditures in the amount of $23,901,553.73.
2nd from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed.
The motion carries.
Is there a report?
No report.
Thank you.
Uh, we have no board, board appointments to be voted on.
We do have several board appointment nominations.
16A is a nomination to appoint, and these will be,
these are nominations only.
They will be considered at the June 25th meeting.
16A is a nomination to appoint Dano Tate to the Huntsville Electric Utility
Board, the seat previously held by Kimberly Lewis for a three-year term
to expire July 1, 2029.
16B is a nomination to reappoint Jim Batson to the Huntsville Natural Gas
Utility Board to his current seat for a three-year term to expire July 1,
2029.
16C is a nomination to reappoint Jim Batson to the Huntsville Water Utility
Board to his current seat for a three-year term to expire July 1,
2029.
16D is a nomination to reappoint David Mathis to the Huntsville-Madison
County Marina Port Authority.
City council Place one his current seat for a five-year term to expire July
1, 2031.
16E is a nomination to appoint Yolanda Sales to the Human Relations Commission.
Place one to fill vacancy due to the resignation of Remulus Bowden for the
remainder of a vacant four-year term to expire September 8,
2026.
16F is a nomination to appoint Paulette Risher to the Huntsville-Madison
County Railroad Authority, City Place one to the seat previously held by
Dray Wilson for a five-year term to expire.

[00:30:01]
May 22, 2031, 16G is a nomination to appoint Rushi Singhal to the Early
Works Museum Board Place nine to the seat previously held by William Clark
for the remainder of a three-year term to expire June 26,
2028.
Are there any nominations from the floor?
Yes, Madam President, I nominate Samuel T.
Green the second to the.
Huntsville Electric Utility Board for the seat previously held by Kimberly
Lewis for a three-year term to expire July 1st,
2029.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
Are there any other nominations from the floor,
Mr.
Meredith?
Given Ms.
Watkins' nomination to a competing, uh, seat,
I'd like to withdraw my, uh, nomination of Mr.
Daniel Tate.
OK, so please let the record show that the nomination for Daniel Tate at
16A has been withdrawn.
And uh Samuel Greene has been nominated from the floor.
Are there any nominations from the floor?
Hearing none, we'll move on.
We have no Huntsville utility items.
We have a couple of legal items, uh, transactions.
So this is 18, 18A is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of the utility
and drainage easement between the tracks one and two Martinson Ranch.
Phase 4, is there a motion to approve?
Motion motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate, uh, any opposed.
The motion carries, uh.
18B is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of a 5-foot utility and drainage
easement in Lot 2 Montesano Construction Company subdivision 1617 Montesano
Boulevard.
Motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
We have no vacation of rights of way or deeds of acceptance,
so that brings us to 19 unfinished business items for action.
19A is an ordinance to amend Chapter 15 license and taxes.
Article 3, sales, use, rental and lodging tax,
Division 5 lodging tax.
Section 15 of the Code of ordinances for the city of Huntsville regarding
license fees.
Is there a motion from Mr.
Little?
Is there a 2nd 2 from Mr.
Kling.
I have been made aware that um uh the administration has asked to postpone
this item um.
And um.
To the June 25, 2026 meeting, is there a motion?
The chair makes the motion to postpone the June 25th meeting.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Uh, any discussion?
All in and second motion from this, I'm sorry,
to approve motion to, uh, to postpone.
Move to postpone motion to postpone to the June 25th meeting from Mr.
Little.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
Is there any discussion?
All in favor to vote in favor of discussion.
OK, I'm sorry, Mr.
Meredith.
Um, could someone from the, thank you, Mr.
Hamilton, explain why this is necessary.
Council members, the item before you is a proposal to increase the lodging
tax by 1% with that, uh, with that new 1%,
uh, earmarked for, uh, capital improvements at the BBC.
As you're well aware, uh, we're also, uh,
in the process of bringing to you, uh, a TF that would also be part of the
funding.
Strategy for that project as well as some others,
uh, it's our recommendation that since, since both of those items are aligned
to the same project and the, the TI vote,
uh, right now is scheduled to come to you at June 25th,
our recommendation is better for you to handle both those things on the
same night since they're tied to the same project,
uh, not have one get ahead of the other.
Thank you, sir.
Any other questions, if I might say Mayor Battle,
this is just part of our obligation to the Hotel Motel Association and all
those who have supported this, this effort.
Uh, to make sure that we follow through with our word what we gave them
our word, we do.
And also, you know, one of the things that we try to do,
uh, with any, any, you know, fee structure or tax thing like this,
but you know, particularly for lodging taxes,
they, they have to do some things to be prepared to begin collecting it.
And so, you know, if, uh, with your passage at,
uh, when it comes back, it would not actually take effect until October.
So that would give them sufficient time to update their system,
be prepared to begin collecting it in October.
Any other comments?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries, and the item has been postponed to,
uh, June 25th.
19B is an ordinance annexing 24.67 acres of land lying on the north side
of University Drive east of Providence, Maine.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair.
Mr.
Nunez, Council members Thomas Nunez, the manager of planning and zoning
services.
This item is located north side of University Drive and east of Providence,

[00:35:01]
Main Street.
Uh, petitioners seeking to annex for city services.
Questions for Mr.
Nunez.
Mr.
Meredith.
Do we have an idea of uh what's gonna, this is uh for a commercial retail
development.
But we don't know of what nature, uh, that's currently not,
have not been disclosed, but we are certain that it is,
will be, uh, proposed to be zone C4 for commercial retail and possibly even
some lodging components.
OK, so smaller retail, um, small or large,
yes, it could, this with 24 acres that gives us a fair amount of flexibility
or the development team a fair amount of flexibility in.
Uh, how's the scale of the development.
So depending on the marketing strategies and,
um, infused in, uh, they have some, some options to,
but primarily, um, commercial and retail.
And we don't.
Apartments are, are.
Viable under this, uh, zoning, right?
Well, this is not the zoning component that would come at a later date,
but if, uh, the proposal would be for C4 and if the,
the council were to approve such, then yes,
that would be a, um, an, a use that would be permitted.
OK, thank you, sir.
You're very welcome.
Any other comments or questions?
All in favor, please indicate all opposed.
Motion carries.
19C is ordinance annexing 1.98 acres of land lying on the north side of
Capshaw Road west of, uh, Waltriana Highway.
There's a motion, motion from Mr.
Little second from the chair.
Mr.
Nunez, again, this item is located north side of Capshaw Road and west of
Waltra Highway, uh, petition seeking to annex 1.98 acres for also a commercial
retail development but on a smaller scale.
Any discussion.
All in favor please indicate any opposed motion carries.
19D is an ordinance to declare certain property surplus no longer needed
for municipal use.
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Any discussion.
Yes.
OK, Ms.
Watkins.
Good question.
So as I'm reading this, it's saying that it has to be destroyed to prevent
a data breach and the cost to properly dispose of this is $3 per camera,
but is the, uh, film backed up?
It is so the way, uh, so basically the the basis of this is we have replaced
the old body worn cameras with a new system.
uh, what, what the IT professionals have figured out is the cameras themselves
have some local storage in the device and so there's potential for data
that could be a privacy issue for citizens or whoever.
The way our systems work though is the officers come in at the end of their
shift and they download all that data and then we have retention standards
that are set uh for for all that data so this is just making sure that these
cameras don't fall into somebody's hands who might try and you know use
it to violate somebody's privacy.
OK, thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate all opposed.
The motion carries.
This brings us to 20 new business items for consideration or action.
These items will be approved in one motion unless any council member wishes
to remove an item for discussion.
The reading of each item will be waived unless a council member requests
otherwise.
Are there any items any council member wishes to hold for separate consideration?
Yes, ma'am.
A C D F G I K P V A B.
Are there any other items anyone wishes to hold for separate consideration?
It went pretty quick, uh, so I may be, um,
repeating some.
Would you like me to, so we have A, C, D,
F, G, I, J, K, and J.
J J was one that I asked to help.
I J K P V and A B.
Uh, what came after P V and AB.
V as in Victor.
OK, yes, ma'am, um, I would like to hold item.
K.
K is hell.
Yes, sir.
And item N as in.
Nano got it.
We have item A C D F G I J K N P V A B.
do.
And Anne, yes.

[00:40:01]
Let me just get all of those down here.
Do we have pee?
Yes, OK.
And also, please remember that item uh 200 and 20X have been deleted.
So, the chair moves for approval and consolidation of consolidation and
approval of items 20B, 20E, 20H, 20L, 20M.
200, 20 Q to you 20 W.
To AA.
Is there a motion to second for Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
Motion carries.
We'll move on now to 28.
2A is a resolution authorizing travel expenses.
The chair moves for approval.
Is there a second?
Second by Mr.
Little.
Ms.
Watkins, you held this your questions, please?
Yes, uh, can you tell me, um, from the last council meeting,
I think it was, I wanna say 14 or 15,000 last council meeting,
so two weeks ago, and now we're approving for 30,000.
Excuse me.
Yes, the, the amount actually this time, so the total cost of travel for
this period was, um, was $30,291.76.
The employee reimbursement amounted to $8,355.93.
Like too much detail, but.
Um, but basically it all depends on who travels to where,
how large is, is the actual travel expense.
So for this one, if my memory serves, I don't have the other one directly
in front of me, was that there were fewer people that traveled in that time
period and it may have even been for conferences that were like within the
state as opposed to outside of the state or something like this for this
particular one, we had.
We had a number of places, um, you know, there was a planning conference
in Detroit, Michigan, there was, um, the Decatur,
Georgia, and there was some out of state ones that went to different places,
um, so it all depends on kind of what's in state,
out of state, and how many people actually travel in that time period.
So just to make sure that I'm I'm I'm tracking,
out of the 30,000, 8500 of the 30,000 was employee reimbursements?
Yes ma'am.
OK, thank you.
Any other questions, Mr.
Me, um.
What is, I, I know there are times when multiple people from a department
will need to go to the same conference.
Um, is there any limit to the number of people within a department that
can travel to the same conference?
No, it all depends on kind of the requirements at the conference,
um, you know, for instance, there may be CLE CLE or CPR for us CPE requirements,
you know, cert continuing certification requirements for different registrations
that we hold.
Different certificates that that are held within the city by different employees
or um or for just general I know that for like the our national conference
we like a couple of people to try and go to that just in order to cover
it there's so many things happening at one time so um so it just depends
on conference to conference and it is up to the department head as to how
many people attend that conference is there any uh.
Ban or prohibiting factor for a whole department to accompany or to attend
the same conference?
Not that I'm aware of.
I'm not aware that that has happened, but,
um, but that may be, maybe that's something that has occurred.
I, I, it came to my attention that it has occurred,
um, but certainly not within this bunch.
Um, I found it.
Particularly odd that a whole department would take off for a week,
uh, to attend the same conference, but, but if there are CLEs and other
things involved, it, it makes more sense now,
um, but, uh, I appreciate you pointing that out,
um, um, so thank you.
Any other comments?
All in favor, please indicate motion carries.
20C is a resolution authorize mayor to enter into an agreement to mutually
terminate the janitorial Services Administrative facilities awarded to Office

[00:45:01]
Pride Inc.
pursuant to resolution number 26-413.
Is there a motion to approve motion of Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Um, Mr.
Hamilton, could you please, um, share with us what we're doing here.
Council members, will, you'll note that that C and D are related to each
but related to each other, but we need to handle them in sequence.
So we need to first focus specifically on C and then come to D in order,
uh, so, uh, janitorial services throughout,
uh, city facilities is mostly handled.
By contract we do have a few employees that provide some janitorial service
primarily here in in City Hall, but the vast majority of facilities are
maintained by contract.
Uh, we actually have two separate janitorial contracts.
One does administrative buildings and the other does all the parks and rec.
So what's the one that's before you tonight is the one that focuses specifically
on administrative buildings.
The Parks and rec, uh, contract actually will come up in about 6 months
for bid.
So that, uh, that one is not part of tonight's discussion.
So this is purely about the administrative buildings.
Uh, this RFP went out, uh, several weeks ago.
Uh, it was evaluated.
and we had uh what was the low bidder, although this is one that was not
determined purely based on low bid it's actually a kind of a best value
evaluation process, but in this particular case the contractor that was
evaluated the highest was also the low bidder.
Unfortunately, after that contract was approved and and what they have to
do is once you approve the contract, they then have several things they
have to do to be fully compliant, including getting a performance bond.
In this particular case, unfortunately the contractor was unable to achieve
some of those requirements and so that's why this cancellation before.
because they are not able to, uh, perform,
uh, uh, under this contract.
So, uh, we first need to cancel this contract.
As I said, indeed we will then take up the next action to deal with the
repercussions that that what what's before you right this minute,
uh, is specifically cancellation of this contract because of their inability
to perform.
Questions for Mr.
Hamilton are in discussion.
All in favor, please indicate and opposed.
The motion carries.
20 is Madam Chair, excuse me one second.
I, I, I need, we need all of the members to speak into their microphone
when they're voting.
Thank you.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into an agreement to award
the janitorial Services Administration building contract previously awarded
pursuant to resolution number 26-413 to PJH Cleaning Inc.
doing business as Alabama Cleaning Services.
Is there a motion to approve?
Move to approve for Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Um, Mr.
Hamilton, can you, so this is follow up to see it is so,
uh, with the action that you just took, uh,
we no longer have a contract for, for those facilities,
and so this is, uh, how we deal with that.
So, uh, the contract, uh, before you is with PJH Cleaning,
uh, doing business as Alabama Cleaning Service.
Uh, they, they came in 2nd in, uh, in the competitive process.
I will tell you it was very, very close.
I've actually seen the scoring, uh.
Rubric from, uh, from the committee, uh, it is in terms of the pricing which,
uh, obviously we, we particularly focus on pricing is for a full year about
$70,000 more than uh, than who was the low bidder,
uh, but they performed, uh, very well on all the other metrics and so our
recommendation is, uh, that we now move to the second bidder which is the
one before you, uh, in order to approve this contract and allow them,
excuse me, to, uh, to move forward.
So just, just to be clear, this contract then is from a bidder who was able
to meet all the requirements.
Now they, they have the same issue.
They, there, there's certain things like going to get a performance bond
and some other things you can't do until you actually have a contract.
So, uh, that's why unfortunately occasionally we bring you a cancellation.
Something has happened, uh, early in the process and so,
you know, with your, with your approval tonight they will have an executed
contract and that will allow them to go move forward some of those final
administrative things should they run into problems that we'll,
you know, then we'll deal with that but, uh,
but they can't take any of those steps until they actually have a contract.
Any other comments, questions?
All in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
And he opposed motion carries.
Thank you, Mr.
Hamilton.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to submit an application to the
Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs AECA for fiscal year
2026 emergency grant ESG funds.
Motion for Mr.
Little.
Is there a second?
Second by the chair, um, Mr.
Irwin.
Yes, council members, Scott Irwin Community Development Department.
This time is authorizing the mayor to submit an application to the Alabama
Department of Economic and Community Affairs for ESG funding,
which is Emergency Solution Grant funding.
This is a pass-through grant that we provide,
uh, resources to our homeless service providers within the community to
address homelessness.
Uh, the process is that we submit this application.
Uh, we then, uh, receive applications from our local service providers and

[00:50:04]
then once we have the, the, uh, uh, organizations selected and their activities
selected, then we'll come back to you with individual contracts with those
organizations, but they will address things such as street outreach,
emergency shelters, homeless prevention, and rapid rehousing.
Our expected application for this particular grant is $500,000.
Questions for Mr.
Irwin.
You say 500,000?
Because on the notes it's 5 million.
It was a typo.
It's a typo.
OK.
I just wanna clarify, make sure.
Well, it's, it's the, yeah, thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Ir.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate by saying aye,
aye aye.
Any opposed?
Motion carries.
20G is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a contract between
the city of Huntsville and low bidder Rogers Group Inc.
for ditto Landing event space, parking lot base bid and option number one,
project number 71-26-SP 36.
Chair moves for approval.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Davis, thank you, Madam President.
Good evening, Councilman Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development.
So this is a project, uh, it's been in the capital plan for a couple of
years, uh, from a budget standpoint.
Uh, we're now ready to bring before city council.
This is a, uh, partnership with Madison County as they're making a significant
investment along the river for, for Ditto with an event center,
uh, new leasing opportunities for, uh, Ditto to have new revenue coming
in.
Uh, this council agreed a couple of years ago to provide the parking.
Uh, so, uh, the bid amount came in actually under budget.
The total contract amount's $2,315,000.
We'll provide 450 spaces, uh, to the ditto Landing,
uh, event area area.
Also includes about 450 ft of greenway lighting and then land some new landscaping
berms along Hobbs Island Road area.
Again, uh, our budget was about $3 million so this is under budget,
so.
Very competitive bids going on right now.
Well, I, I would just make one comment that this is,
uh, the entire project which, uh, has been led by Commissioner Phil Riddick
to do the event center and the restaurant space at Ditto is very exciting,
and we can't have any events if we don't have parking.
So this is a critical piece to make it work.
In addition to this, we've also done some sewer work as well,
haven't we?
Yeah, so, uh, water pollution control actually self performed that bringing
sewer down to this area of, of Ditto Landing.
So, uh, we did that about a year ago.
So, so this, this, our, our infrastructure contribution is making this possible.
So, um, thank you for the work we're doing on that.
Any other comments?
All in favor, please indicate by saying aye,
uh, and he opposed.
The motion carries.
201 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into an agreement between
the city of Huntsville and Shoal Engineering Company Inc.
for engineering design services for roadway improvements along Northern
Bypass and Memorial Parkway Project number 71-26-RD03 and LO project number
CRSA S T P H V P E 10 motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Any comments or questions from Mr.
Davis?
Mr.
Davis, will you please explain what the, what this exactly ought to be?
Yes, ma'am.
Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic.
So council members, uh, as you're well aware,
we are getting close to wrapping up later this year.
The Northern bypass extension.
Uh, we'll essentially go from Pulaski Pike to about 1500 ft east side of
the parkway along the new Food City.
Uh, in the middle of this construction project,
uh, we have secured a, a really major, uh,
retail development currently anchored by Home Depot and Target and some
others that we're working on.
Uh, so what this is doing is designing.
We've been working with Aldo on access management for this new retail development
which would include two signalized intersections,
one on the northern bypass, one on, uh, Memorial Parkway.
Uh, and then some right in right outs to some of the out parcels.
So this would be a design contract to design that so we can utilize,
uh, getting this in place before we finish the normal bypass.
We, we wanna get these, uh, improvements,
one to support this retail.
If you've been up in that area, dirt is moving later this summer.
You'll start seeing footing and foundations go in,
uh, for the first part of the retail, which will be Target and,
and some other other junior boxes.
They're getting really close to announce.
Uh, and then as we get into really late fall,
uh, you'll start to see the Home Depot start to come out of the ground.
So what we're trying to do is not open a brand new road and then have a
bunch of orange barrels out there trying to get two signals in.
So we're really trying to let all this finish about the same time.
Any other comments or questions?
All in favor please indicate by saying aye aye,
and he opposed motion carries.

[00:55:01]
20J is a resolution authorizing mayor to enter into an agreement between
the city of Huntsville and Skipper Consulting Inc.
for professional engineering services for an interchange access request
IAR study along I-65 between Exit 340 and Exit 347 project number 71-26-SP.
47 move to approve motion from Mr.
Little second by the chair.
Um, Mr.
Davis, I, I held this because I think it would be interesting to the public
to hear why we feel we need this additional access at this point.
Absolutely happy to explain.
So I, I think this is an example of us trying to stay ahead of our transportation
infrastructure.
Uh, this is certainly not our infrastructure,
right?
It's Interstate 65, uh, but we all know, uh,
we all use Huntsville, Limestone County, Decatur,
Athens, all of us from a regional NPO, uh,
the interchange of I-65 and 565, um, is very congested.
Expanding that interchange will cost a lot of money.
Uh, it's not something that Aldo or Federal Highways ignoring.
Uh, but we've been having conversations for about a year with Federal Highway
Administration of saying a cheaper alternative from a,
you know, $3000 to $400 million dollar interchange improvement project,
uh, could possibly be looking between the Huntsville Browns Ferry exit and
I-565, a new interchange that could be in the $30 million range or $40 million
range.
That would provide connection into the growth corridor that we're seeing
at Mazda, Toyota, and the different things that are out in that western
corridor.
Mark Bartlett of Federal Highway said, we think that's a great idea.
We said, well, can we help lead to kick this off?
And he said, yes.
So that's what this will do.
Um, as we get into this, that we will bring more to the public and certainly
with Federal Highway, will the city of Huntsville build the interchange?
Most likely not, but we want to accelerate.
We want to advance and not wait till functional failure.
So I think this is a good example of us trying to be proactive as we did
with restore our roads and some other, uh,
partnerships we've had with uh in, in, in the past.
Mr.
Meredith, I don't have any questions, but I know we've been working on this
interchange for quite a while, so I think it's wonderful to see the progress
being made and hopefully, yeah, as, as Council Mayor said,
we did a light corridor study to kind of.
Pigeon where the best location could be worked with Federal Highway on a
couple of different locations.
What this will do is finalize that location,
do some geometrics of, uh, how that interchange would most likely connect
over at some point to Mooresville Road, Greenbrier Parkway to the west side
of 65 to Highway 31, uh, which would provide access to Calhoun College,
Prior Field, uh, so this will finalize where that future interchange would
be, get approval from out on Federal Highway,
so it's locked into their system.
Sounds good.
Thank you very much, sir.
Any other comments?
All in favor, please indicate by saying aye aye aye.
Any opposed motion carries.
200 is a resolution authorize the mayor to enter into a land lease agreement
renewal between the City of Huntsville and Roger Martin Farms for the rent
and lease of approximately 111 acres of unimproved land generally located
in Cummings Research Park.
Promotion from Mr.
Little.
2nd, 2nd from Mr.
Kling.
Thank you.
Um, Mr.
Davis, yes, ma'am.
Uh, so this is a just what it says is a farm lease renewal.
Uh, this is actually located in Cummings Research Park,
so we have a number of these, uh, that come through here annually.
They vary in lease amounts, and I wanted,
uh, for the public and for this council to get you to understand or,
or better understand why, you know, they're not the same price per acre,
uh, so we work with a farmer that has interest in it and then.
You know, soil conditions, the amount of acreage,
the location, what it takes to, to go plant a crop,
get it harvested, get it out, and then is it irrigated or not?
So the, the other one you've held, uh, you will notice that we're gonna
get to the, the least amount's a lot more.
We actually has irrigation on it, so it produces a much.
Uh, uh, greater yield such that you know they can pay more for the lease.
So the lease amount in this is $8400.
It is irrigated in Research Park.
Uh, what we mainly do, uh, here in Alabama,
you, you let a piece of property sit dormant for a year,
volunteer trees come up.
We would spend a lot of money trying to maintain this.
So, uh, getting any revenue, uh, just somebody maintaining it for us is
actually saving the taxpayer money.
Thank you.
Questions?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
20 is a resolution authorize the mayor to enter into a land lease agreement
renewal between the city of Huntsville and Devaney Brothers Farms for the
rent and lease of approximately 131 acres of unimproved land lying in the
vicinity of the Western Area Treatment plant.
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from Mr.

[01:00:00]
Kling.
So the, the, the same, uh, for, for this one and let me find it on here.
So this is 131 acres, uh, I apologize.
I was looking at the Devaney one that was like Greenbrier.
If you want, all I was gonna ask is why are the values on these properties
so low, um, and I, well, why are the values so low?
Why is the city only getting $5180 for letting a farmer farm?
Yeah, so, so for instance this one is adjacent to the Western wastewater
treatment facility, so the site was actually,
uh, a former lay down area for the construction of the treatment plant.
So it's not fully topsoil.
It's got some rock, some churt, so it does produce a crop,
but it's if you go see it once it's planted,
I've been down there.
It's very sporadic, so it doesn't have a lot of land value,
but we don't want it to, to grow up in privet and volunteer trees.
Uh, what I wanna point out since we're talking value,
uh, the Devaney farm one that was just the one I thought you were holding,
um, I just circled the wrong one.
It is 233 acres at the Greensboro exit.
It's the remnant track, uh, from the Eli Lilly,
uh, that we'll retain.
It is irrigated and it's at $29,150 for about 100 acres,
so much, much higher, but it's producing a yield.
It's got great topsoil.
It produces a good yield, so they're paying based off yield.
And, and, frankly, even that is a cheap price.
Um, it, I was amazed at how little farmers pay on land leases,
uh, and yeah, I didn't want the public to think,
well, Huntsville's just giving this stuff away.
It, it is.
Relatively inexpensive and, and Kelly Davis in the engineering office handles
these and about every 3 years she'll call some of the large landowners that
are doing that Tate Farms and some of the others and say,
OK, kind of what is the lease rate that you're paying others,
and then we try to adjust these based on that.
Thank you sir.
You're welcome, sir.
And we also, and as they maintain this land for us,
um, it also means that if we need it for something we can quickly turn around.
We don't have to do a lot of clearing and well,
and, and the other thing is take research for that land's for sale,
um, the, the land out at Greenb that that you approved.
It is, it is marketable to go bring jobs.
So at a moment's notice we may have a company that wants to come see that
it needs to show well, you know, it needs to see where you can envision
this is a good piece of property.
These farm leases have it in a condition that it's always well maintained
and always shows well, OK.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate by saying I,
I opposed the motion carried 20% is a resolution authorizing the mayor to
enter into a new design services agreement between the city of Huntsville
and MPS Architecture PC for the transit station office renovation.
Is there a motion to approve motion for Mr.
Klang, second from Mr.
Little, um, Mr.
Hamilton.
Councilman, what's before you is a design contract to convert some space
in the transit center to office space.
Uh, it's a relatively new facility, but we're also actively,
uh, growing that system.
And so as, as Ms.
Bryant's needing to kind of add some staff and,
and, uh, change the way she's operating, uh,
we need a little bit more office space inside that facility.
So this will convert some lobby space that's been lightly used,
uh, into, into office space.
Thank you.
Questions.
Is, is this at the new transit center?
So it's in addition to what's there.
It will not be in addition to the building.
It's converting some interior space, uh, into office space.
Oh, got you, OK.
Other questions, is there, uh, any reason to indicate that because this
is taking place that, uh, there's gonna be further transit route expansion
in the future?
Well, there is a plan.
I mean, this change won't automatically turn into more buses,
but, but, you know, you've, you've seen some of the plans over the next
few years to, uh, to add more routes, add more hours,
those kinds of things, and so that, uh, that's continued to move forward.
This allows, uh, Ms.
Bryant to properly staff it, uh, and deal with some of that,
that increase of traffic into the facility.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate by any opposed motion carries.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a facility use agreement
between the state council and James Seck LLC for the event Leine en Blanc
Decatur.
Zero motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little second from the chair.
Uh, I'm not sure who held this, um, question specific to this,
Ms.
Watkins.
Yes, exactly what does this consist of with them?
Because the event is in Decatur, so, well,
it's not, it's actually in Big Spring Park,
and that's, oh, they haven't in Big Spring Park this year are exactly.
So I think that, uh, yeah, it's a little bit confusing where they have,
they left Decatur in their name even though,
uh, this particular event's in Big Spring Park.
So this is a standard facility use agreement that that entities,

[01:05:01]
uh.
Can get for for park use this one and sometimes others have to come before
you because uh they will have alcohol involved and they have to get a special
event permit from the state.
The state requires them to have a council approved agreement for use of
the facility so that's, that's why it's before you versus a typical one
Mr.
Gossett has the authority to approve on his own.
That's all I need to know.
Thank you.
Any other questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate all opposed.
The motion carries.
And 20 AB is a resolution authorizing acceptance of a corrective deed correcting
the legal description contained in the original deed recorded in deed book
2023 page.
15 to 18 of the probate records of Huntsville,
Alabama authorizing the mayor to execute a quick claim deed to convey the
portion of land erroneously included in the original deed back to the parties.
Uh, chair makes a motion second from Mr.
Little.
That's a whole lot of language there to help us understand very simply what
we're doing.
Yes, ma'am.
Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development,
so.
Uh, the total reconveyance back, uh, to the landowners is only 1.15 acres.
It's actually in three really small locations.
So through the Hayes Farm development, uh,
they donated a lot of land for public space and public parks and greenways
and trails and, and, uh, it's a really, if,
if you looked at the legal description of all that,
it was about 22 pages.
Uh, so as we've went back into that and then and started comparing with
actually tax assessor of of land, there was a couple of survey errors and,
and just some minor turns of east, uh, bearing or west bearings.
So we've got all that corrected and realized that,
uh, there were some little pieces here and there that wasn't meant to be
donated that was meant to be retained.
And we're just cleaning that up.
So just making sure that everybody's legal boundaries,
uh, close and touch each other.
So just a minor survey and clean up.
Any questions?
All in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
Any opposed?
Motion carries.
Uh, that concludes our new business items,
um, and we will now move to items for introduction.
These items are for introduction only.
They will be considered at the June 25th meeting.
21A is the introduction of an ordinance amending Chapter 8 businesses of
the Code of ordinances of the city of Huntsville.
To add Article 6 concerning private park and pay facilities,
21B is the introduction of an ordinance declaring certain equipment surplus
and to be recycled for monetary value.
21C is the introduction of an ordinance to amend ordinance number 25-194,
Chapter 2 Administration.
Article 13, control of access to city-owned,
controlled, and leased premises of the Code of ordinances of the City of
Huntsville.
That concludes all of our business and that brings us now to 2nd roster
public comments.
We have 4 people who have signed up.
This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons wishing to address the
council on matters relating to city business,
whether or not such items are on the agenda.
You may anyone who has signed up may speak,
uh.
And when called, approach the microphone,
state your name, address, and city of residence for the record.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers will refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and from making comments regarding the good name and character
of any individual.
So when I call your name, please come to this central podium here,
and I will also call the name of the person to follow so you can be ready
to come.
The first person to sign up is Tanya Hawkins.
Subject is safety measures at railroad tracks.
Ms.
Hawkins, he'll come forward, he'll be followed by Andre Austin.
Hi, my name is Jania Hawkins, and my address is 1538 Moontown Road,
Brownsboro.
Yes, um, good evening, everyone.
Um, back in 2004, I actually lived on Salty Bottom Road with my family,
my mom and my father, and he was hit by a train at that crossing,
um, unprotected, unmarked crossing at Salty Bottom.
After massive injuries that he incurred, he did survive,
but survival is not the same as returning to the life he once had.
After that day, his world became smaller,
his strength, his independence, and the years that should have been spent
spoiling his grandchildren were all limited by what happened in those few
terrifying seconds.
Our family has lived with that ever since.
Then more recently, tragedy struck again.
Last month, Keegan and McKinley Davis lost their lives at that same railroad
tracks at Salty Bottom Road.
Their family is here with us today.
Um, his father and his daughter.

[01:10:01]
Um, that actually was in the accident with them and survived.
Um, lots of other supporters, if y'all would like to stand up just to show
them who's here, would be great.
The two lives that day was a 36-year-old father and an 8-year-old little
girl gone in a moment that should have never been left so unprotected.
Two families changed forever at a crossing that gave no warning,
no barrier, and no second chance.
These are not isolated stories, they're reminders.
A train can't swerve, it can't stop quickly,
and when a crossing has no lights, no gates,
no protective.
Barriers at all.
The responsibility falls entirely on human judgment and the conditions are
often hard to judge.
This is why safety upgrades matter.
Lights, bells, crossing arms are not luxuries.
They're life-saving barriers between everyday travel and irreversible loss.
Every crossing like Salty Bottom Road, a crossing that has more than 2100
vehicles that cross it every single day, a crossing that's had multiple
fatalities, a crossing that remains unprotected is a risk sitting in plain
sight.
City council members, I respectfully ask for your help along with all of
these people and several that couldn't come because they couldn't get off
work.
In addressing the ongoing safety concerns at this railroad crossing at Salty
Bottom, please work with Al Dot to make the necessary improvements before
another tragedy occurs.
If funding is the primary obstacle, I know there are some that have said
they are willing to contribute toward the local matching funds that the
county was previously unable or unwilling to provide.
Our community continues to endure the devastating consequences of this dangerous
crossing.
Families are grieving.
Lives have been forever changed, and the residents live with the fear that
another preventable accident could happen anytime.
We urge you to take action and help protect the citizens of our community
from, from further loss.
My father's life was altered in 2004.
Keegan and McKinley Davis' lives were ended.
We can't undo what's already happened, Ms.
Hawkins.
We please ask for protection.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
We are very sorry for your loss.
The next person to speak is Andre Austin,
who will be followed by David Snyder.
Andre Austin, uh, Kenny Enhu Diaz, Bain Drive.
So I'm Huntsville City, city of Huntsville,
yeah, uh, and unfortunately there's no dialogue back and forth because my
question is about, uh, community development.
Uh, in regarding community development, I was wondering if there's a code
of conduct, uh, an SOP, or, uh, standard operating procedures in which bylaws
there are for the, uh, community development personnel.
There is a situation, it's I can't go back and forth with the actual personnel
of community development.
There's a situation where Realtor.
Cause community, they don't even live here.
All right, that's the problem.
So a realtor calls, community development,
come out to my property and you know, it's fine.
I'm still building a fence, you know, times are tough,
you know, stuff happens, alright.
Well, Why is it a realtor that don't even live in the community,
don't even live in a neighborhood, is willing to make my life difficult,
because I gotta, obviously I don't come out of pocket,
I don't want, you know, not be seen, you know,
not be done myself, you know, and you know it's a little frustrating because
they these folks they they call, they sell up the properties,
they don't care about nobody live there.
And you got this personnel from the community development walk on the property
that's for sale to look over into my over into my property,
over the line, over the fence, whatever, trying to see what they Can I don't
know, violate, say this from jump back there with it.
It, well, you can't see it from the road,
it's construction screen up, so why are you going all the way back past
the curtilage that's the legal bound, as far as I'm concerned,
I'm, I'm sure any law enforcement can tell you they can't go past the curtilage,
unless it's an insinu insinuating circumstance.
So why is it that the community development personnel can walk all the way
past the fence to the neighbor, they said on tape that they the neighbor,
and I recorded it.
Said that the neighbor or the realtor, sorry,
the realtor gave them authorization to walk past the fence,
to walk, look all in back my yard where people on normal,
you can't even see it on Google Maps.
So why is it OK for him to see that?
I mean, intimate details.
Talking about what?
uh.
License plate numbers, you know, ain't no telling what else he out there

[01:15:00]
back there doing, scouting the place out trying to figure out what he can
steal.
I don't know these folks, and I think that it's just disingenuous and disrespectful
to have people from Community Development.
That they can just do whatever they want,
they're more important than the police officers,
I guess, and the fire department and the and the paramedics.
People saving lives, they're not that important.
That's all I got to say.
Thank you, sir.
Mr.
Irwin, would you like to have a conversation with Mr.
Austin?
Uh, Mr.
Austin, Scott Irwin, our director of Community development,
will meet with you out in the hall.
We will now hear from David Snyder and Mr.
and, uh, David will be followed by Jerry Cox.
Hello, my name is Mix David Snyder.
Uh, my information is written correctly on the sheet.
I live in Huntsville.
I've got a lot on my plate, so this will go a little fast.
First, I would like to invite City council and anyone in the audience and
anyone listening, uh, to a screening of the Alabama,
uh, Solutions documentary.
It'll be on June 20th at the Fellowship Presbyterian Church on Meridian
Street.
I'm volunteering with the United Women of Color.
Come and check it out.
Um, I would also like to just raise community awareness around a meeting
that was had with, uh, uh, our city, uh, council president,
uh, Ms.
Robinson, Councilwoman Robinson, and a few other representatives,
uh, the police chief, uh, about Flock and,
uh, the camera system that we are in contract with as a city.
Uh, Cayden Helbling submitted a FOIA request.
It's an open records, uh, uh, Act request,
uh, and.
It was denied on the grounds that it was that the material was about investigations
material, which was not true.
That is not factually true, and I think that is how a lawyer would phrase
it is Cadence arguing against the facts of the case.
That is not what the material was asked for pertains to.
Um, I would like to mention during that meeting,
at a certain point, actually, uh, someone in the room interrupted Councilwoman
Robinson.
And um just started talking right over Councilwoman Councilwoman Robinson,
and uh it just It rubbed me wrong.
I wish that I had spoken up in that meeting,
uh, when that happened and brought it up.
I, you know, I personally, I feel like I should have done better for that.
I was interested in what Robinson had to say about that,
but, um, we are, uh, awaiting a review.
One thing that was agreed upon in that meeting is that by the 30th,
uh, 30th, a review of the denial and possibly a reevaluation and possibly
a reversal will come through.
So we're anxiously awaiting that.
Um, there's also a a deflock week of action starting August 16th.
Right, um, I also wanna bring a little community awareness about the battery,
the meeting that happened about the battery that's being placed in District
one.
it's not, not living in District one.
Yeah, I went for solidarity.
It's not my bag to talk about, you know, what should happen one way or the
other.
I would like to say though that it was interesting,
uh, it was confirmed when I brought up in the meeting.
Um, that it seemed like what I was understanding from the data,
um, that there are energy, uh, inefficiency issues happening in District
one that contributed to the battery being placed in that district,
and I think that we as a city need to look into that more and provide that
district with, you know, what it needs to be able to,
to meet that, um, the, uh, officials from Huntsville Utilities mentioned
about there being energy efficient.
Efficiency programs and when I asked about it when I followed up with that
and asked, you know, where is the data for transparency,
I'd like to see how many, uh, you know, how many times it's been applied
for and how many times that's successfully happened.
I, there's just no data there so you know there's no way to confirm that
one way or the other how well that's working.
Um, I would also like to bring up, I've been going through some efforts
to, uh, raise bus fare for people coming out of the jail,
right?
Uh, I've been going on about this for some time,
several meetings now.
Uh, our sheriff's department's very open to it.
I would really appreciate it if our city council and Mayor Tommy Battle,
it may have to come from you.
So look forward to an email from me.
Um, Jerry Cox is, I don't see Jerry here.
Is Jerry out in the hall?
Um, he was our last signed up to be our last speaker,
so that we have no more speakers.
Is there any other business before the council?
We are adjourned at 6:48.
Thank you all for joining us.
Yes, ma'am.
