[00:01:04]
Welcome everyone.
It is Thursday, July 23, 2026, 5:30 p.m.,
and this meeting of the Huntsville City Council is called to order.
We are met in the chambers City Hall in Huntsville,
Alabama.
We welcome everyone who has joined us here in the chambers and who is joining
us remotely.
Um, you may notice that our numbers are down a bit tonight.
We, uh, Ms Mayor Battle and council member David Little,
they are both out of town and we look forward to having them rejoin us at
our next meeting, uh, but be assured a quorum of the council is present
and we will conduct our business tonight.
We will begin by an invocation offered by one of our Huntsville,
Alabama public safety chaplains, chaplain Scott Lowry.
He will be followed by Pledge of Allegiance,
uh, which we led by council member Bill Kling.
All who wish to stand for the invocation and pledge,
please do so.
It's been a privilege to serve this my 20th year as a volunteer police chaplain.
We've seen a lot happen.
I stood beside Mayor Battle in the hallway of UAH when there were no words
to speak 16 years ago.
We've seen God bless this community tremendously.
May we never take those blessings for granted.
Let's pray.
Father, we come before you with thanksgiving.
I thank you for the privilege of living and ministering in a progressive
community but also a community with um.
Moral value.
I pray God that you will give our leaders continued wisdom,
help us never to take the blessing of living where we live for granted,
but to understand that you've been very, very good to us.
We pray, Lord, for our leadership tonight for the things that will be discussed.
We pray for our state we pray for our country.
And we ask for your blessings we ask for wisdom and once again thank you
for the way you've poured your blessings out throughout the years.
Bless now in all that is said and all that is done,
and we will give you the praise.
Amen.
For which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Thank you so much for your 20 years of service,
Chaplain Lowery.
Thank you also, Mr.
Kling, for opening our meeting for us.
Uh, council members, we have a couple of changes to be noted on the agenda.
Item 9A has been withdrawn at the request of the sponsor because the property
has been brought into compliance.
That's always a good thing.
And then we have had a request to add an item regarding a fire truck lease
which will become twin item 20 AD, uh, and,
and our bylaws require that to be added by motion.
Is there a motion to add item.
Uh, the item that will become 20 AD motion to do that,
Mr.
Meredith, uh, Mr.
Kling, will you take the second on that?
All in favor, please indicate, uh, opposed.
The motion carries.
We will then need a motion to approve the agenda,
uh, with, uh, the removal of item 9A, the addition of AD.
Is there a motion motion from Mr.
Watt from Ms.
Watkins, seconded by Mr.
Kling.
I like how y'all are working together tonight.
All in, uh, favor please indicate any opposed the motion carries and the
agenda is approved.
We should also note that Mr.
Kling made a nomination from the floor last week to nominate Barbara Hughes
for the Human Relations Commission.

[00:05:00]
But that, um, nomination was made outside of the 30 day window before the
end of her term, so you will not see it tonight on board,
um, on nominations to be approved.
So we will take that appointment that that nomination process forward to
August when it will be timely and vote take care of it then.
Are there any, I guess I should have asked earlier,
any other changes or additions to the agenda?
We're good.
All right, very good.
Thank you.
We'll now move on to the approval of minutes for A is the minutes of the
regular meeting of the council held on July 9th,
2026.
Are there any changes or additions to be made to those minutes?
So none, we're good.
Uh, and then 4B is the minutes of a work session of the city council held
on July 10, 2026.
Any changes or additions to those, uh, those minutes?
Then those minutes will all be, uh, accepted as they've been presented.
Uh, Mayor is not here with, so no special recognition from the mayor,
but we do have a couple from the council.
6A is a resolution honoring the 10th Cavalry Hill.
Uh, Buffalo Soldiers, American Legion Post 351 for over 60 years of service
to the Huntsville community, is there a motion to approve motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please.
And Kate, I opposed motion carries.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to make that presentation?
Oh, sorry, microphone.
There you go.
Good evening.
Can I have the 10th cavalry soldiers please come up,
please.
So while they're coming up, let me tell you all a little background about
myself.
Come on up on the stage, um, before I read the resolution,
I grew up and went to school in elementary at Calvert Hills Elementary School,
and throughout the time that I was at Caver Hills,
this is why your history is so important,
and I talked to several people that went to school with me because I thought,
how did I miss that?
But no one never told us why the school was named Caver Hill.
And throughout the years when we came to learn why it was called Calvary
Hills, and a lot of people refer to it as 10th Cavalry instead of Calvary
Hills, and it's so important for us to teach our history,
know our history, and recognize our history.
History.
So that's why tonight I have them here because I wanna recognize them for
the hard work that they do in the community.
So I'm gonna read some of the resolution and then I'm gonna turn it over
to Mr.
Walker.
Are you, you Sergeant Major, right?
First Sergeant.
OK, whereas the city council and mayor of Huntsville recognized the 10th
Cavalry Hills Buffalo Soldier American Legion Post 351 as a distinguished
veterans organization whose members have faithfully served both our nation
and the Huntsville community through military service,
civic leadership, and unwavering commitment to equality and service.
Whereas following honorable military service,
nearly 300 veterans from Huntsville, Madison County and surrounding communities
united to established American Legion Post 351 after being denied equal
access to existing American Legion facilities,
receiving their official charter in 1961 following years of perseverance
and determination.
Whereas the founding members of Post 351 car for the proud legacy of generations
of African American servicemen and women,
including the Buffalo Soldier, the Tuskegee Airmen,
the 369th Infantry Regiment, and the 761 Tank Battalion,
and countless others who answered the call to defend our nation with courage
and distinction.
Whereas throughout its history, Post 351 has demonstrated remarkable resilience
by overcoming numerous challenges, preserving its charter through the dedication
of generations of commanders, officers, members,
and volunteers who remain steadfast in their commitment to serving veterans
in the community, whereas the Post has made lasting contributions to Huntsville
through youth mentorship.
Educational program, boy state sponsorship,
oratorical competitions, tutoring initiatives,
community service projects, and advocacy on behalf of veterans and their
families while promoting the principles of duty,
honor, patriotism, and citizenship, whereas in 2024 the members voted to
rename the organization the 10th Cavalry.
Buffalo Soldiers, American Legion Post 351 in recognition of the historic

[00:10:00]
legacy of the Buffalo Soldiers who once camped in North Huntsville and to
honor the enduring connection between the legacy and the service of the
Post members.
For more than 6 decades, the members of Post 351 has strengthened the Huntsville
community through their dedication of veterans,
youth.
Education, public service, and preservation of African American military
history inspiring future generations through their enduring example of leadership
and perseverance.
Now let it therefore be resolved that the city council and the mayor of
Huntsville, Alabama do hereby congratulate.
And honors 10th Cavalry Hill Buffalo Soldiers,
American Legion Post 351 upon its continued legacy of service and expressed
sincere appreciation for more than 60 years of dedicated commitment to veterans,
youth, community service, and preservation of the proud military heritage
and history of African Americans in Huntsville and the state of Alabama
and our nation.
Can Hannah.
Thank you, uh, Councilwoman Watkins.
Uh, normally first I do a lot of talk, but tonight we're not gonna do this.
So I wanted to say happy birthday to America,
250 years of perseverance, and I wanna thank the mayor,
Councilwoman Watkins, the city council members,
and all of you for coming, and we appreciate this award and this recognition,
and we will carry forward from this day forward.
Thank you.
Thank you all for 60 years of service.
Item 6B is a resolution recognizing National Health Center Week 2026.
Is there a motion to approve?
Chairman Ms.
Watkins, I will take the motion.
Mr.
Kling, the 2nd.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to make that presentation as well?
I think it's still on.
Good evening again.
Can I get uh Thrive Happy Health and Central North Alabama to come up please?
Let's see this here for one second.
That's So we, we brought all of them together in recognition of National
Health, um, Center Week.
So I'm gonna read this resolution and then I'm gonna let each one of you
from each of your organization speak if you don't mind,
OK, whereas the city council mayor of Huntsville,
Alabama recognized.
National Health Center Week to be observed August 2nd through 8th,
2026 as an opportunity to celebrate the essential role that the community
health centers play in providing high quality,
affordable, and accessible health care to individuals and families throughout
our community.
Whereas Central North Alabama Health Services Inc.
a federally qualified health center serving the citizens of North Alabama
since 1982, has remained steadfast in its mission to improve health and
well-being of the community by providing comprehensive primary health care
services regardless of a patient's ability to pay.
Whereas Thrive Alabama and Happy Health together with Central North Alabama
Services work collaboratively to ensure that residents throughout North
Alabama have access to comprehensive primary care,
preventive services, behavior health care,
dental care, pharmacy services, and other essential health care resources
that improve the quality of life and strengthen our community,
whereas Community Health Center serve as trusted healthcare homes for thousands
of.
Individuals and families reducing health disparities,
promoting wellness, preventing diseases, and ensuring that quality health
care remains accessible to all in our community,
whereas the physicians, nurses, dentists,
behavioral health professionals, pharmacists,
administrators, and support staff of our community health centers demonstrate
extraordinary dedication, compassion, and professionalism in caring for
the health care needs of our residents each day.
Whereas the collaboration celebration to be held on Saturday,
August 8, 2026 at Campus 805, Butler Green reflects the shared commitment

[00:15:05]
of Central North Alabama Health Services,
Thrive Alabama, and Happy Health to honoring.
Their patience while strengthening community engagement and promoting healthier
lives for the residents of North Alabama.
Now, therefore let it be resolved that the city council and mayor of Huntsville,
Alabama do hereby recognize August 2nd through 8th,
2026 as National Health Center Week in the city of Huntsville and commend
Central North Alabama Health Services Inc.
Thrive Alabama, and Happy Health for their outstanding service,
unwavering commitment.
Commitment and collaborative efforts to promoting the health and well-being
of our community, the city council may extend our sincere appreciation to
the health care professionals, staff, volunteers,
and community partners whose dedication continues to make quality health
care accessible to all and encourage all our citizens to recognize and celebrate
the invaluable contributions of our community health centers.
Thank you.
Will you say your name and which organization you're with?
I'm Carlton Pifram.
I'm the CEO of Central North Alabama Health Services,
and we have, uh, provided services since 1982.
To indigent and low income individuals, uh,
primary people below 200% of poverty and 100% of poverty,
federal guidelines, we will continue to do that,
uh, and we appreciate our patience and the governments,
uh, the city council, the Huntsville Hospital,
etc.
who has supported us all during this 46, 44 years.
Thank you.
Yes thank you.
Hi, I'm Stephanie Harville.
I serve Thrive Alabama.
Um, I just want to thank the council and Councilwoman Watkins for inviting
us here tonight.
We love our community and those that we serve,
and we just appreciate the opportunity.
Thank you.
My name is Geeta Berry.
I'm the CFO for Happy Health.
I am here representing Ms.
Johnson, the CEO, as well as Happy Health.
Uh, thank you again, Ms.
Watkins, uh, for the invitation.
Um, we are really, uh, committed to providing quality elite care for all
of our patients, no matter who shows up at our door,
uh, and I think, um, we cannot take that for granted,
and we have just privileged to be in this space.
Thank you.
Real quick.
We're good.
Thank you all for your service to our community.
Miss Watkins.
Thank you for making those presentations.
The next resolution is for approval only,
not for presentation.
6C is a resolution recognizing and celebrating the 150th anniversary of
Temple Banai Shalom.
Is there a motion?
Motion for Mr.
Kling.
Second for Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor.
Please indicate I opposed.
The motion carries.
Mr.
Kling.
It's my understanding you will make this presentation on Friday evening.
Is that correct?
That is correct.
That will be to celebrate their 150th anniversary of the temple of their
Shabbat service.
Wonderful.
Thank you for, for doing that.
Um, we have one presentation tonight, and that is an update on the Northern
bypass project.
Ms.
Watkins, I understand you've requested that,
and Mr.
Davis will be making the presentation.
Mr.
Davis.
Good evening Council member Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development.
So, uh, tonight the administration wants to provide you and,
and the public, uh, an update on, uh, one of the larger construction projects
we have going on in the city, and that's the Northern bypass as we refer
to it locally, but it's actually the extension of State Route 255.
So remind everybody the overall scope of the project.
It's 4.5 miles of new limited access highway,
uh, from Pulaski Pike to about 1000 ft east of US 231-431.
Original project cost was $43 million.
Uh, the project replaces the existing, uh,
two-lane Bob Wade Lane that was a local, uh,
road both in the city and portions of it being in,
uh, unincorporated Madison County.
Uh, the construction, uh, includes the relocation and replacement of utilities,

[00:20:00]
uh, new water, new gas, electric, and communication relocation,
uh, as I mentioned, 4.5 miles of new curb and gutter roadway.
And then multiple new road intersections along the corridor,
uh, the, the.
The arrow that you see to the right kind of shows the current stage as of
about 30 days ago.
Uh, I think this aerial shows, uh, a good,
uh, scope of work of what is going on.
We'll, we'll work from the top part of the,
uh.
Of the photo and down so in yellow the the two areas you can see the new
portion is actually open to traffic, uh, for so,
uh, to the top of the screen would be Memorial Parkway or US 231 bottom
of the screen would be, uh, getting close to Pulaski Pike.
Uh, you can see where the new intersections at Mount Lebanon and Northgate
Drive will connect, and then, uh, in the black box you can see the light
gray.
That's the old Bob Wade Lane that this road project is replacing.
Uh, I will tell you, uh, contractors and crews are in the most difficult
section of, of the project, and that is cutting through,
uh, the upper, the lower slope of the mountainside.
You can, you can see as we get into some of these,
uh, additional photos again.
This is near Mount Lebanon Road, uh, intersection.
You can start to see on the left hand side the,
the divided, uh, four lane highway coming,
uh, to the west.
And then, uh, just to the right side of the screen,
you can see the old, uh, Bob Wade Lane and the new,
uh, that would be the new westbound two lanes.
Uh, this is the part that's really, uh, we knew would slow the progress
of the project down.
It, it's cutting through the mountain slope very similar to,
to a Cecil Ashburn, uh, widening project.
The contractor is, uh, hammering and busting rock and processing on site,
uh, for roadbed material, but, uh, this type of construction,
uh, is very slow and for the amount of productivity.
Uh, here, uh, for the next couple of slides I'm gonna show you the portions
that are complete and open to traffic.
Uh, to the left would be going westbound towards,
uh, Pulaski Pike, uh, where Facebook and Meta and Toyota Motor Manufacturing
and L3 Harris North Huntsville Industrial Park and to the right you're,
you're moving towards the Parkway.
Again, so this is the new 255.
I will point out the two lane road just in the upper part is the old Bob
Wade Lane, uh, that will reconnect, will stay a local portion.
We will, once the project's complete, we will,
um, identify this road as Council Lady Watkins met with the neighbors,
uh, locally will be called Bob Wade Lane.
It'll have State Route 250 signage.
Uh, so we will at the point that we dedicate this road comes open to public,
we will need to rename, uh, that two lane portion.
And the Sharp family had indicated they would be open.
Ms.
Watkins has, we've made no commitment, but the Sharp family has lived on
that road for a very long time, so that could be an option.
But certainly this council will make that determination.
Uh, there's plenty of time to do that, uh,
as I move a little further.
You can see the intersection of uh US 231-431 and State Route 255.
When we bid the project, we put this as an early completion or or requiring
the contractor to work from this intersection westbound.
So that's why you see, uh, everything near the parkway is complete.
Uh, four-way traffic is, is moving and then we transition as we get further
west as we approach Pulaski Pike back to the two lane as we're continuing
to, uh, do construction.
Uh, you see that, uh, work is progressing on North Huntsville Village or
North Village Town Center, uh, the first phase being,
uh, anchored by Home Depot and Target.
And Food City to the bottom.
So again this is just a a better close up of the intersection that is complete.
Heavy amount of traffic already, uh, getting diverted westbound,
uh, seeing this as an alternate route in the mornings to get to Research
Park, Redstone Arsenal, the western corridor of our city.
Um, project summary, you know, as, uh.
Once complete, this section, uh, will be significant to our community as
far as transportation network.
It will complete a 14 mile loop of limited access highway from Interstate
565 to US 231.
And what I mean by limited access is as we go through major intersections
like University Drive and Highway 53, those overpasses already in place,
uh, so from US 231 to Interstate I-565.
Uh, other than the signal at Mount Lebanon that I showed you earlier and
Pulaski Pike, uh, it travels much like an interstate system.

[00:25:04]
Uh, project status is about 75% complete.
Uh, we're currently scheduled for the calendar days,
uh, contractually of November 2026.
Uh, we have had, you know, some inclement weather this summer,
a lot of rain.
Uh, this is a federal aid project, so we probably will add some days to
that.
Uh, but as you can see, we're getting really close.
The, the, the hardest part around the mountain.
Uh, tow, uh, once that, uh, rock is excavated,
most utilities are complete.
Huntsville Utilities likes just a little bit with electric,
uh, they're near Toyota area, uh, but most utilities are in place,
so, uh, that's usually the slowest part.
And the good thing is those have been moved now for about 6 months in,
in totality.
I'll answer any questions the council may have on the project.
Ms.
Watkins, yes, one of the questions I was,
well, first of all, thank you, Mr.
Davis for that presentation, um.
A couple of people have been asking me about the Northern bypass.
I thought the best thing to do was just to have an update in council chambers.
So, uh, we're 75% complete, and I was gonna ask you,
but you said we're running a couple of days behind because of inclement
weather.
Do you still, um, project this to be completed in November?
We are pushing both the contractor and engineering department to be completed
by this calendar year.
Um, I will, uh.
Just point out that I know engineering is working through it.
Uh, this, this is probably the best illustration.
So the geotech, uh, naturally showed rock in this area.
It's the toe of the mountain, uh, so would be what you would expect,
but as you see along the tree line, it's not solid rock,
uh, so the design plans for this project had much like Cecil Aspirin,
we would drill, shoot the rock, and it would leave a stone face,
a rock face along that with no treatment needed.
Um, much like you'd see on Governor's Drive,
that you see on Cecil Ashburn.
Naturally you see that is not the case.
It's what we refer to in engineering is a mixed face.
It's partly dirt, partly rock, so we are working on a supplement plan of
how to stabilize that.
It could be slope pave.
It could be rip rap.
The state will do that.
It's a state highway, uh, so that would add a little bit of time.
But what we are focused on is maintaining schedule of the,
the road itself and get traffic on it.
This would be outside the traffic lane, and we believe could be done,
uh, without.
Uh, not withholding opening the road.
So as we get through the next couple of months,
I continue to update you, but everybody's focused to get the road finished
and traffic going both directions by the end of the calendar year.
OK, and I've been traveling through that road,
and I'll tell you that I have seen that it has come a long ways.
Yeah, it looks good.
It looks really good.
Um, the other question I have is how's this gonna help commute time for
travelers who are traveling to Redstone Arsenal.
So as far as travel distance versus if you live in the northern part of
the city or the northern part of the county today you're traveling US 231,
you're coming through I-565 and then headed westbound,
uh, our traffic modeling, uh, for this project,
which the Federal Highway requires us to do,
uh, estimates, and that's computer generation modeling but cuts 15 minutes
off that commute time.
Because it's more of a direct route, but it,
uh, one of the things I do, I wanna answer your questions,
of course, but then I wanna give you a quick update,
just two slides of what we knew would happen.
One, this is going to move a lot of traffic which we need in a growing community,
but we knew it was also going to be an economic development generator,
as most major arterials do in any city, and I will show that,
uh, momentarily.
We wanna take your questions first.
OK, that's all I have for now.
Thank you for the presentation.
Yes, ma'am.
Mr.
Meredith, I just have a couple of quick ones.
Could you show me the reconfigured, uh, intersection at Mount Lebanon?
It seems like it'll, well, if you could just show me that.
So it's best here.
Yeah, so I'm assuming where the road goes to the um north from this perspective,
um, that's gonna be the new intersection,
correct?
You know, it will, so you, you see the current T intersection of Mount Lebanon,
the two lane of Bobway.
So think of, uh, that two lane direction of Bobway remaining,
becoming the new two lane westbound of 255.
You see where the construction equipment and the new gravel that is eastbound
towards the parkway.
There will be an asphalt median between those two travels and turning movements
in that median.
So think of a four lane divided highway like a 431 US 72.
Uh, it would all act very similar to say Nance Road in 72 in your district.

[00:30:01]
That's what it will look like.
OK, so turning movements, both turning movements will directly go into,
uh, Mount Lebanon, or will there be like a little U-turn that someone has
to, it, it will be a conventional signalized intersection,
full turning movements.
Excellent.
Thank you, because a little I got misled by that.
Service road thinking that you were gonna drop it.
That's a good point.
OK.
My other question is the tie-in of 565 is gonna be on Rideout Road by the,
the gates to the Arsenal and Bridge Street.
That's, that's right, that, that would be the terminus of State Route 255.
Thank you.
This is a great road project and um I guess next to council member Watkins
I'm, I'm the biggest cheerleader of it.
It's gonna be great and I can see where it's what it's gonna mean to the
community.
OK, now let's say this gets wrapped up roughly around,
uh, November.
Uh, looking ahead, uh, are y'all starting to work plan toward,
I guess what we would call the eastern bypass over towards Highway 72 East
and over to Hampton Cove?
My ultimate goal is the ring road around the city that would take stress
off of the center part of the city.
Yes sir, we are.
So, um, we refer to this as the Northern bypass phase one,
from Pulaski Pot US 231.
We're at, uh, 60% set of planned completion for phase two,
which will go from US 231 to Winchester Road and Mooresville Road.
Uh, we, Cathy Martin and I just got confirmation about 30 days ago after,
uh, meeting with Mark Bartlett of Federal Highway.
Uh, with having federal funds, you have to have what is called a logical
terminna, meaning where you would pick up the next phase and where federal
highway says you can in the next phase.
Well, the issue is, is when you model this and the amount of traffic will
be diverted off I-565 and come through this corridor,
the logical termin would be US Highway 72.
Our argument has been that becomes a significant cost project.
In the tune of $180 million we wanna move local traffic,
so we've been advocating for a year to say let our,
let our next phase two go from the parkway to Winchester Mooresville.
We can obtain funding.
It's a little bit of right away.
They're large track owners, and we can fund that now.
Uh, it's taken a long time, but we got confirmation about two weeks ago
that, uh, Federal Highway is gonna let us move forward with that.
So, uh, to answer your question, Mr.
Clean, we believe that, uh, we can bid that project next year.
Uh, which would get us to Winchester Mooresville Road,
uh, which will help alleviate if you, if you see what we're doing,
even though we got our own malfunction junction of I-565 and US 231,
it's about a $350 million project.
These top projects are, you know, if we can move 15,000 cars out of that
interchange a day and give them an alternate route,
it helps South Huntsville.
It helps downtown.
It helps East Huntsville and West Huntsville that come through that interchange
every day.
Cause it's, it's the nerve center of North Alabama,
north, south, east, west.
Uh, so we're advocating for that.
The eastern bypass that would come from Hampton Cove to US 72.
Uh, we've completed a corridor study.
We know what the alignment will look like.
We've sent, sent that off, how it will tie to US 72 to LOT.
Uh, there are actually funding in the cap plan to start design plans for
that next year that, that, that you approved.
Uh, they were approved in 2025, but we've been waiting for the corridor
study and getting a, uh, federal highway now to approve where we would tie
to US 72 before we start the design, and that's occurred this year,
I guess I'm hoping for the day down the line when Huntsville has a ring
Road eastern bypass come around Arsenal East connector,
come back on the ring road that takes stress off the medical district and
all the other central portions of the city and,
uh.
I think that would really, you know, just remake Huntsville and take traffic
flow improvement, but we're working on all you guys are doing great things,
not fast enough, of course, uh, all of y'all,
they're all in progress.
Um, I think we should call it the cling ring.
That's how we'll just refer to for now.
I think you may have answered one of my questions,
and that is you're anticipating 15,000 cars would,
would come off the parkway come off and, and transition and take pressure
off of the malfunction junction.
That's a great thing.
All right, any other comments or questions,
Mr.
I, I've been instructed to ask or.
To state that uh we can't name it after Bill because he's alive because
exactly so unless you put it in John Hunt Park,
that's the exception I think it's time to move on.
Maybe, maybe this council would see an exception for Mr.
Clean.

[00:35:00]
Thank you so much, Mr.
Davis.
We appreciate that update and the good work everyone so I can have 2 more
minutes of this council.
So let's give you an update also for phase one update of North Village Town
Center.
Uh, so as you know, it's previously been announced,
North Village Town Center is a 200 acre mixed use retail development at
the intersection we, we're just speaking of US 231 State Route 255.
Uh, the project would deliver a little over 650,000 square feet of retail,
restaurants, medical, hospitality, fitness,
along with resident new residential development.
Uh, progress is moving.
Uh, the city's almost completed, uh, some relocation of utilities,
Huntsville Utilities's new water line.
They want to go ahead and get a loop in through this project.
There was some sewer that we needed to reroute,
uh, a drainage ditch, that aerial photography that you saw,
regional detention pond that we want to create,
uh, all that is about 95% complete.
Uh, so work very quietly has been occurring with not a lot of fanfare,
uh, but the fanfare is about to start, so we are scheduling real estate
closings both with Target and Home Depot in August and September.
So this fall you'll see, uh, tilt up concrete walls start to,
uh, come up out of that red dirt.
Uh, phase one is scheduled to open in 2027.
The whole development will take about three years to complete.
It, it is a lot of land.
Uh, so we will, uh, bust that up into 3 phases.
I'm about to show you those phases, uh, but phase one will open next year.
Phase two will start, uh, mid to late next year.
So they'll, they'll run a little bit in parallel,
uh, as things start to open, you'll see, uh,
new retail, hotels, and residential start to,
uh, catch up.
So this is the site so you can see, uh, some of the utilities you can see
the regional uh retention pond along the TVA transmission lines,
uh, and then we were required to sell this property to,
uh, remove any structures on site.
So there's some, it was formerly a farm, so there was some barns and things
that, uh, that we needed to, uh.
Demo demo and get off site.
There was an open, uh, drainage public drainage ditch we've put that underground
and, and rerouted it to maximize the retail out parcels.
Uh, we could have left it there, but for us the amount of money it took
us to relocate versus the out parcels we would get creating sales tax and
property tax, it was well worth, uh, those utility relocations.
So, again, just another view of this you can see Food City,
uh, to the south you have approved so out in front of Food City there you
see some, uh, grass area you have sold one of those,
uh, and approved this council so of Abilene Express,
it would be the far left of half.
Uh, and then we're in negotiations, uh, with an entity to purchase the 3
out parcels that will bring, uh, sit down restaurants there.
We'll bring that to you very shortly, uh,
so we've wanted to wait.
Our phone has rung off the hook, uh, but knowing what we were creating across
the street, we wanted to make sure we got the highest and best use out of
city property, and I think we're doing that.
So let's kind of walk through everything that's occurring around this intersection.
So, uh, the white boxes you see, that is the phase one.
you have approved real estate contracts for everything except the two parcels
I've showed you out in front of Food City.
So, uh, the red dirt that you see on the west side of the parkway.
Uh, the, the kind of triangular piece 16.5 acres that you see on the north
side of State Route 255, those are contractually obligated,
uh, to our master developer of Target and then directly with Home Depot.
Then master developer for the North side,
uh.
Once they close in August and September, uh,
the master developer will have the authority to bring more public announcements,
uh, of the actual end users.
I can tell you the entire phase one is sold out,
uh, so every square foot of phase one, which includes about 350,000 square
feet of retail, is spoken for.
Uh, and it what I would call it the best in class type brand names we all
know, household names.
Uh, phase two would be in yellow.
We are starting to work on that as well as far as public infrastructure.
The far south portion of phase two, Huntsville Hospital is closed on their
property and is in full design for a new,
uh, emergency and imaging center.
It's about a $50 million project, uh, that will break ground next year.
Uh, so that'll be one of the anchors.
And then the other anchors we are starting to finalize with our master developer,
same master developer, uh, with the target as we move west,
uh, flanking phase one and two is phase three,

[00:40:00]
so we're in, uh, in final negotiations to secure that property and starting
to talk to retailers on, on that piece, uh,
the orange piece to even further west, so that would be the corner of 255
and Mount Lebanon Road.
So we're working with the Harris family and their master developer.
Actually there's a rezoning action on that project tonight,
uh, for a planned development, uh, that we're very excited to partner with
and bring before this council, uh, in the coming months.
And then, uh, to the far right is the last comment I'll make is new residential
single family for sale.
It's called Camden Place, uh, new residential,
uh, community that's under construction.
This is exactly what we thought we could create 5-6 years ago as we kept
pushing and pushing and pushing to get this project.
When I say this project, State Route 255 underway.
I am done.
I'll take any questions.
Mr.
Davis, again, thank you, thank you to your team,
and I know Ms.
Watkins, you must be very proud of this.
I'm absolutely proud and ecstatic, and the only thing that I don't like
about Shane Davis, he won't let me tell anything.
I have shared some stuff, and she swore to secrecy.
She's done a great job with that, by the way we will look forward to hearing
good news in the future.
Thank you, council members.
We, uh, we have no, we'll move on then.
We have no matters with outside legal representation.
We do, however, have, uh.
A Couple of public hearings to be held.
Um, 9A has been deleted because the property was brought into compliance,
and we always like to hear that.
So we'll move on to 9B.
9B is a public hearing authorizing community development to assess the cost
for demolition and cleanup of a structural public nuisance located at 13032
Cheney Thompson Road, Southeast Huntsville,
Alabama, and consideration of a resolution pertaining to the same Mr.
Irwin.
Uh, yes, Council member Scott Irwin, Community Development Department.
This is a public hearing on a resolution authorizing community development
to assess the cost for demolition and clean up of a structural public nuisance
located at 13032 Cheney Thompson Road.
The resolution before you authorizes an assessment in the amount of $16,438.38.
All procedural requirements relate to the declaration,
demolition, and clean up of a structural public nuisance have been fulfilled
in accordance with the state of Alabama's Public Nuisance Act.
Property owners were notified that an assessment may be authorized and placed
on their property at the city council meeting on July 23,
2026, during which time they may have the opportunity to appear and present
any objections to the assessed cost.
Thank you very much, Mr.
Irwin.
Oh, and let the record show that Mayor Battle has joined us.
Welcome back, Mayor Battle.
Um, the public hearing on item 9B is now open.
Is there anyone here who wishes to address us regarding item 9B?
Anyone wishing to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is now closed.
Is there a motion to approve the resolution?
Motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
Any questions regarding this?
Uh, I'm just grateful to you for, uh, getting this on the agenda and getting
it taken care of.
Thank you very much.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carries.
Thank you, council member.
Thank you.
9C is a public hearing on the zoning of 2.41 acres of land lying on the
west side of Old Big Cove Road and south of Worley Drive to residents to
district and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the same.
Mr.
Nunez, good evening, council members.
Mayor Battle, Thomas Nunez, manager of planning and zoning services.
This item was, uh, uh, annexed into the city of Huntsville approximately,
uh, two months ago.
Uh, the zoning of this property is approximately 2.41 acres.
It is an existing single family home, and residents are seeking to zone
the property residence to district in, um,
which is consistent with the adjacent zoning properties.
The public hearing on item 9C is now open.
Is there anyone here wishing to address us regarding or make comments regarding
9C?
Seeing none, the hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve?
motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Ms.
Watkins.
Any questions for Mr.
Nunez?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
9D is a public hearing on the zoning of 2.47 acres of land lying on the
south side of old Highway 20 east of Greenbrier Parkway to commercial industrial
Park District and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the same.
Mr.
Nunez, Councilman, this item is located on,
um, old Highway 7 on Highway 20 and east of Greenbrier Parkway.
Uh, this property was recently annexed into city limits and is zoned,
uh, seeking to zone the property commercial industrial park consistent with
adjacent properties.
Thank you, Mr.
Nunez.
Public hearing on item 90 is now open.
Is there anyone wishing to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve?
motion for Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
Uh, any questions for Mr.
Nunez?
All in favor, please indicate all opposed.

[00:45:02]
Motion carries.
And finally, 9E is a public hearing on the rezoning of 505.03 acres of land
lying on north of Bogway Lane, east of West Mountain Mount Lebanon Road
from Residence two and Residences two B districts to plan development housing
District LUI 45 and 56 and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the
same.
So moved.
We are super excited.
We do super excited about this.
We just heard about Mr.
Let's let Mr.
Nunez go first.
Sure, um, again, council members, I'll start with a small presentation.
I'll try to make this as quickly as possible as you currently have a motion
on the table that has not yet been second,
uh, but again, this item is, uh, planned development housing district rezoning.
Uh, property was recently annexed into the city,
uh, Huntsville in August of 2020.
5 and was uh zoned appropriately so that they can go through the planned
development process so through this um you would see a proposal of 505 acres
essentially producing approximately 1800 homes.
Now those 1800 homes were consistent of uh multiple phasing of homes,
uh, that we call, um, home choice and options where that.
Uh, this proposal will produce a 42 lot, um,
42 width lot development, also a, uh, 56 56 ft lot development and also
a 66 size lot development.
Uh, when you look at these 30, 40 in the town homes,
this is talking about products.
So, uh, getting down to the very, uh, last,
uh, role in that which says Harris Farms overall,
uh, within the 30 ft, this is just the product that is the home,
the style itself, and not the lot sizes.
Uh, through my presentation I'll get into a little bit of deeper,
uh, discussion is how that fits into the lot and some of the modifications
that will come before you soon.
Uh, but overall this produces, uh, 1800, uh,
units.
548 of those units would be a 30-foot product.
40, uh, 623 units would be a 40 ft product,
and 226 would be a 54 ft.
Uh, product and lastly, um, 141 proposed town homes.
One of the things that planning staff, uh,
likes about this development is that it's a diverse housing,
um, strategy that is new, what, uh, keeps and allows for affordability throughout
the development as I move forward, uh, this proposal will have 4 different
street sections, uh, that are non-traditional to how we currently design
streets.
Nevertheless, they are still streets that we've seen on a common basis throughout
our city.
Uh, but it can, of course, as you look at other housing and plan development,
um, you see these types of styles.
Each one of these sections has approximately an 8 ft planting section,
uh, which is similar to that of our, um, crime prevention through environmental
design that is allowed through our subdivision regulations.
Uh, they produce a tree that will add for vegetation and shading over time
for those that would commute and walk through this community.
Uh, this community, as I speak about it would be very walkable as majority
of these phases of A, B, C, uh, all have 6 ft sidewalks.
Um, currently our regulations require 4 ft,
as you can see they're going just beyond and have to ask for modification
for these, these different street sections.
But through that development.
You can see the primaries.
There's a boulevard Street which is A, um,
a major collector street which is B, uh, there are two of those and then
a C collector, minor collector Street, which would be on the west side of
Mount Lebanon.
Through this development, uh, there will also be a local road that has a
fifty-foot right of way that will also ask for a modification,
but I'll get to those a little bit later.
Uh, this is the housing style and products that you will see.
Um, these are similar to, uh, developments that we've seen throughout our
city, but also has, uh, we'll have design standards and architectural review
um, committees that will review each component as these homes are built.
Therefore, if the, um, city council approves this planned development.
Furthermore, this open space rendering and amenities,
what I do want to bring to the forefront is that this,
uh, development is heavily amenetized with approximately 350 acres of open
space and about 15 acres of recreational space throughout the entire development.
So, uh, we get to the deeper details, uh,
you'll see, um, larger amenities, pickleball courts,
greenways, larger sidewalks, um.
Some other, uh, aspects of pickleball courts,
pocket parks, dog parks that will happen throughout this all throughout
the entirety of the development that would make it attainable for those
to walk and just live and have a, a sense of community throughout the development

[00:50:03]
as well.
Now, this is just another um depiction of our land use intensity calculations
that are a requirement of the zoning ordinance and just showing that we
meet and require or are above those particular standards as established.
Now, the modifications themselves, um, within our planning,
our zoning, um, districts of R2, there are several modifications.
The primary one is that under R2 we only allow for approximately 6000 square
foot in a 50 ft lot.
This modification for the 30 ft product will reduce that size by 8 ft to
a 42 ft lot size with 5040 square feet.
Uh, and also a reduction in, uh, the rear yard setbacks to approximately
15 ft for each style and each product and lastly,
uh, or multiple throughout that, uh, side yard setbacks will be reduced
to 5 ft, um, and for 2 stories we'll go to 5.5 ft with the sum of side yards
at 12 ft throughout the development.
The one unique thing is the, um, typically within R2 you see a 40% lot,
uh, coverage.
This development would would request or or ask for modification to go to
a 63% lot coverage.
Now within that 63% lot coverage, you, uh,
spoke to the fact that you are producing approximately 350 acres of just
open space, um, green space, open space that is,
uh, clear to the sky with no true development on it,
but also 15 acres of recreational space.
So, uh, the.
Amenities aligned with the density controls that are being placed within
this development as we see it from a planning perspective.
Uh, again, another modification that you'll see is for the town home developments
currently by our regulations, we do not allow for a garage in the front
yard, um, and for a town home, but this would request that they have a front
loaded product in the garage in the front.
And of course, the one of the closest to last modifications is a height
adjustment to the amenity buildings.
Typically within your subdivisions when a clubhouse or an amenity building
is built, it has to meet the requirements of that of the single-family home.
Those homes are 30 ft and or 35 depending on the um the regulation.
This modification is asking to go to a 45 ft.
Uh, that is all due to the, uh, heavy amenitizing of activities through
pools and recreational spaces that are happening in this development.
So you'll ask for, they're asking for an additional 10 ft,
um, for the amenity sections.
But again, when you, if I were to go back,
you would see how large these spaces are,
and they don't seem to overpower the current developments that would happen
if you see that this section is approved.
And one of the last ones is a 50 ft right of way reduction to uh 12 ft of
pavement.
A typical right of way sections will require a 26 ft of pavement.
This would go to, uh, 24 ft of pavement, so,
uh, 2 ft of a reduction of just pavement area.
But however, recall that I stated that you're getting amenetized sections
through larger sidewalks.
These sidewalks will go to 5 ft in this section and also.
A, uh, the, uh, tree planting section as well.
Um.
And I do want to give uh cadence and respect to those that are doing this
work.
Suncrest, Thomas, and Hutton, Sholl Engineering,
Casey and Spectrum, um, Sutton Suncrest and Thomas and Hutton are are present
and we'll happily answer any questions that you have,
um, but that is my presentation.
OK.
We will hold on questions until we've had the public hearing.
So the public hearing on, uh, on this item is on 9E is now open.
Is there anyone wishing to make comments regarding this item?
Anyone wishing to make comments?
Seeing none, the public hearing is now closed.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to make a motion?
Move to approve, seconded by Mr.
Meredith.
Questions for Mr.
Nunez.
I do, Ms.
Watkins.
I'm more so not questions.
You've thoroughly explained everything to me,
and I really appreciate that.
And, um, more so comment.
Um, I'm really excited about this development in District one.
Um, it's gonna go in line with the retail space and commercial space that's
being developed as well, so it's gonna complement it as well as give the
residents an opportunity for work, health,
play, and I want to also comment that in the past I had,
uh, voted against the development in Mr.
Meredith's district.
And that was because there was not a clear understanding of if things had
been communicated with Hunter City schools.
Since that time, Shane Davis, economic development director,
and Mayor Battle, both have reassured me that they've been communicating
with Huntsville City Schools, and I even spoke with Doctor Sutton as well,

[00:55:03]
and, um, he is happy about this development,
happy about the prospect of having students come in and,
um, attend schools in District one.
So this is the main reason why I'm supporting it because I'm confident that
the city and Huntsville City schools are working together to ensure that
our students are taken care of and that was my only concern.
That concern now has been reassured.
Appreciate you for that, Mayor Ball.
Appreciate you that for Shane Davis and Doctor Sutton.
So, uh, I just wanna say job well done.
Thank you and welcome to the family District one.
I'll get you a t-shirt, OK.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
Other questions?
Mr.
Yes, you had mentioned the towns, um, having front loaded garages.
Do you have an illustration of that?
Um, yes, that is in a slide that would be provided.
There, so just to the right where town halls on the front and um a small
use you can see the different styles on it just to the left of those screens
that speak to the size like the minimum so through this development we established
the minimums and they can go beyond those particular standards.
thank you.
You're very welcome, sir and thank you Ms.
Watkins.
Um, glad you.
Feel good about the Westmoreland um plan development,
uh, that you had concerns about earlier but um I don't have any concerns
about this uh good stuff for you and um.
As you said, welcome District one, but welcome to Huntsville from my perspective.
Mr.
Kling, comments.
Just that I think what's good for North Huntsville is good for all of Huntsville,
and you have more of this type of development,
this type of, uh, growth taking place, it spreads it out and,
you know, takes, takes away the congestion in the central portion of the
city.
Traffic flow goes a little bit better and again,
I think we've got great things going on in,
uh, different corners throughout the city.
Absolutely Jackle the point that, uh, Councilwoman Watkins has made,
this is definitely a steering point of, uh,
the trajectory of growth of District 1 that we've seen over the last 6 years
and one of the primary actions that are happening now.
Um, so thanks to Shane and his support on these as well as we go through
these particular actions of bringing in developments annexations,
and thank you, council members for, um, voting,
but also asking the hard questions of how we get to,
uh, making sure that we continue to put out the best product that we can.
Thank you very much Mr.
Nunez and again for the whole team, great work,
um.
So all in favor.
He's in uh and he opposed motion carries.
Thank you all very much.
We have one public hearing to set.
10A is a resolution to set a public hearing on the rezoning of 12.50 acres
of land lying on the east side of Lehman Ferry Road north of Phil Dotts
Drive from commercial recreation C5 district to Highway B C4 district and
introduction of an ordinance to be pertaining to the same.
Is there a motion to set the hearing for August.
27 2 26 regular council meeting motion from Mr.
Kling.
Second from Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor, please indicate aye any opposed.
Motion carries.
The hearing is set.
Brings us to agenda-related public comments,
and we do not have anyone signed up on.
Agenda related public comments.
So we will go on and officially welcome Mayor Mayor Mayor Battle back from
the London Air Show.
He is with us now.
Mayor, would you have you overcome jet lag sufficiently to make comments?
Uh, we landed about an hour ago, so we're not,
not quite, quite over, uh, the jet lag yet,
but.
Um, you know, it was, uh, let me say as we were out there,
we went through probably 5 different functions with different groups,
uh, 20 different meetings, um, and we're able to talk to industry.
Some industry was already located here, uh,
talked to them about growth and, uh, what,
what they were looking for in the future,
and every one of them were looking at, um,
how we could grow more in the future and offer more opportunity in the future.
Uh, but it was also, um, a lot of companies who,
um, you know, fit into the mode of what we do here and needed to be here
and, um, so, uh, we had about 20 meetings with,
uh, with companies that, um, might be looking,
uh, to settle down and get a new home, a lot of them moving from overseas
production and moving into the United States and so.
We've got some, some opportunity.
We've made an announcement there for 150 jobs,
which, you know, 150 jobs will equal about $12 million a year coming into
this community year in and year out from payroll.
So, um, that was, it was, it was really a good meeting and,
you know, but I was glad to be able to get back.
Um, there's nothing like sleeping in your own bed and,
uh, but also this weekend, I mean, there's a lot of activities happening
this weekend, Kathy.

[01:00:01]
Uh, we'll be going on Saturday at Calhoun,
uh, where we'll be making sure that, uh, young people have,
have the tools they need to get back in school with,
uh, backpacks.
Um, the Times Building is having its 100th year anniversary,
and, uh, Delta Sigma Theta, uh, is in town and we'll be having a luncheon
on, uh, we'll be having activities throughout the weekend,
but, uh, a luncheon on Saturday, and, um.
Let me just say, you know, Harris Farms is a great development for us,
and you know this just follows in the progression of how,
um, uh, the, these things work, you know,
we started out with, uh, with jobs up in,
uh, up, up from the North North Huntsville Industrial Park.
We had jobs there which we added infrastructure which we added that,
uh, our loop road into there and also the overpass at,
uh, at.
Uh, on, on the North Parkway area and, um,
then we added, we've been able to add retail,
uh, and, uh, and along with the infrastructure,
uh, the last thing that comes in is residential,
and this is just the way it's worked in, uh,
out in Limestone County, uh, near the Toyota and,
uh, Mazda Toyota plant.
This is the way it is working in, um, in.
Uh, with for the Harris farm development and,
and other developments that will happen along that area,
it's a progression, and each one of those uh pieces,
uh, have to be in place before the next piece can happen.
So, uh, congratulations to our planning staff.
Thank you for the job that y'all have done.
Uh, thank you to council for y'all's support in making this happen.
Um, this will be a great thing, adding, uh,
homes and.
And, and people to our community and uh also adding to our economy uh up
in the north north end of town.
So thank you.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
Welcome home.
Uh, brings us to council member comments.
We'll begin with council member John Meredith.
Thank you.
Um, want to give heartfelt condolences to the family of Tom Glenn,
who recently passed away after battling a fairly long illness.
Um, I became familiar with him through his leadership at the senior center.
Um, and just a great individual who I had more recently been working hand
in hand with to expand the Meals on Wheels program into the 5th District,
and, um, his, his absence has already been felt,
um, but I, I know his family is going through a tough time right now and
all my heartfelt condolences to his family.
Um, the We Feel Foundation will be, uh, holding its launchpad event this
Saturday, July 25th from 10:00 a.m. until noon at the West Huntsville Recreation
Center.
The foundation is a young community-based organization located in District
5, and they will be distributing free backpacks and school supplies to students
and families in need of those items.
Uh, for those who are in need of those items,
I look forward to seeing you at this first of its kind event in District
5.
I want to acknowledge, uh, being a participant in a ribbon cutting,
um, for at, rather, the grove at Indian Creek off Jeff Road,
which is in District 5.
Um, it is, it, it will be providing senior affordable housing units,
um, that not only will increase the quality of life for its residents but
also provide seniors that are having a tough time right now,
uh, in terms of housing costs, uh, particularly those that rent,
and this, uh, could not have happened.
Without coordination between several uh non-governmental agencies but a
lot of departments within the city of Huntsville and um um community development,
uh, the engineering department uh are.
Thanks, uh, they're not enough, uh, thanks to express,
um, the fact that you all really, really outdid yourselves in,
in making this happen, uh, and don't wanna downplay Mr.
Hamilton, uh, in making this happen as well,
um, but again this is, um, um, an addition to an already existing senior
community, one, of which I have a familiar.
Uh, familial relationship with, um, it is where my,
uh, now deceased, uh, mother-in-law lived for many years and I can tell
you that this particular place is one that really,

[01:05:03]
really adds, um, quality of life to these seniors,
um, they.
Get together, they don't wait on management,
they organize themselves, uh, everything from card games to socials and
the ice cream and margaritas when the time comes.
So, the quality of life that's gonna be available to seniors in this community
is one of the best in any senior community throughout the city,
so it was a pleasure to be there.
Um, I guess finally if Damon could start the slide show on this,
I wanted to address um some traffic concerns uh in the village of Providence,
particularly around the off Broadway um roadways um as you can tell there
is a lot of truck traffic and the trucks are frankly violating our traffic
laws and blocking this.
This avenue uh into the western side of the village of Providence all the
time.
It is the only way into the west side of Providence and they are causing
residents untold amounts of frustration.
To access their house, this is their only way in their only way,
well, their only way out if you are heading east.
There is another, um, avenue for them to exit heading west,
um, but that's of limited, um, um, usage for them.
So I certainly want to encourage and I know they have been,
uh, already had the outreach based on the fact that they knew I was going
to make this presentation.
But, uh, kudos and thank you to both um traffic enforcement as well as Huntsville
Police Department.
Um, they're gonna be really, really monitoring this even more than they
have, um, but I wanted to make sure that the residents of Providence,
um, are aware that their councilperson hears them.
They have been complaining about this a long time.
We have been quietly working on a second entrance to the west side of Providence
so that they can avoid all of this and have an additional way to get access
to their side of Providence and hopefully we're just a few months away from
that project being started and hopefully completed in the very near future,
but given the fact that that is their only way in it,
well, only way in.
And uh of limited use is the exit um out uh from that other side.
So again, I wanna thank um Huntsville police and uh our uh.
Um, traffic enforcement people as well, but the second entrance is obviously
needed and it creates its its own, uh, ecosystem because it will allow folks
to enter that side.
Um, it's better in terms of access for first responders.
Particularly, uh, Huntsville Fire and Rescue as they can access a light
and go in versus having to go all the way around and then make a U-turn
and go over what is a barricade at, uh, 72 and I believe it's Hillcrest.
So thank everyone involved and we really appreciate it.
Thank you, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith, Ms.
Watkins.
Good evening everyone.
Um, I want to invite everyone out on Saturday morning at 8 o'clock at the
Shurney Center.
We're gonna have an overdose awareness walk,
and it's to bring awareness to the epidemic that we currently have,
not just in Alabama and Huntsville but throughout the country.
Also wanna invite everybody out to Cathy,
um, our multicultural affairs office with Randy Barber and Harry Hobbs at
Huntsville Utilities will host Kathy annual event.
They have activities for the kids.
They give away free book bags and school supplies,
and they have information available as well.
Uh, if you want to participate in the celebrating education parade this
year, it's gonna be on August 22nd.
Parade will roll out at 8 o'clock on Maston Lake.
Turn on Pulaski, and we will arrive on Jemison High School.
There'll be plenty of activities for the kids as well as,
um, opportunities for parents to sign up for PTA.
And lastly I wanna thank uh public works,
um, landscape management, community development,
public safety, fire and uh rescue.
Um, let me just say there's not been a time that I've called and asked questions
and they were not promptly answered and I appreciate that.
I appreciate our employees taking time out to do that for us.

[01:10:00]
I wanna thank Thomas and Shane personally for tonight.
You like gave me Christmas in July, so thank you.
Thank you Ms.
Watkins.
Mr.
Kling, thank you, Madam President.
Uh, I wanna join Council Member, uh, Meredith in,
um, recognizing, uh, the great contributions and the great loss we feel
with the passing of Tom Glenn.
Tom was a yeeoman.
Working at that senior center, he was a visionary.
He cared about the people there, and he took Huntsville Senior Center and
he really turned into a thriving, active community,
and, uh, he, uh, really leaves a big void that's gonna be greatly missed
and, uh, this community is a lot better for having Tom Glenn as a citizen
in it for the years that we had him.
Uh, I wanted to ask if I can get, uh, uh,
Mr.
Hamilton to, uh, come up.
Uh, we've had a lot of, uh, discussion, input,
internet flow, and concerns expressed about,
uh, tree removals that took place at the,
uh, Huntsville Middle School location, which is school system property,
not city of Huntsville property, and adjacent to it,
of course, is California Park, which is a city park and.
Uh, Mr.
Hamilton, can you just tell us about, uh,
was any of the trees impacted?
Are those trees going to be protected, or how is that all going to work
in the future?
Sure.
Uh, council member John Hamilton, city administrator,
so yes, there's, uh, we, we received questions just,
uh, just like you did, Mr.
Kling, uh, about, you know, kind of the, the school system construction,
how it relates to our adjacent properties.
So California Park, uh, sits at the, the corner of,
uh, California and Low Avenue, which is adjacent to where,
uh, current Huntsville Junior High.
My understanding is that they're, uh, they're gonna rename it Huntsville
Middle School when it, uh, when the new facility opens.
So the school system has started their construction on that new facility,
of course they're making significant capital investments in schools all
across the city.
Uh, that's one of the earlier ones in that,
uh, in that cycle.
Uh, so their, their project is solely on their land which really kind of
surrounds the park, you know, to the, to the west and to,
to the south along California.
Uh, all, all of their work is contained solely on their property and so
their, their work will not touch, uh, the parcels that we own that,
uh, that make up California Park, uh, and certainly,
you know, would encourage citizens to, if they have any questions about
the school's capital plans to engage with their school board members and
and the school system to understand those in greater detail,
but.
Uh, this answer to the specific question that you and I have both been hit
with is that that school construction does not affect California Park.
Now, you know, California Park is one of,
of several that we know, uh, in, in the out years,
uh, is, is due for some renovations and some investment things.
And so when I bring you the update to the 90 capital plan here in September,
uh, I intend to have a project in it, you know,
out in a few years, kind of after the school system is done with their work,
uh, for the things we need to to, to, to spruce that park back up along
with others throughout the city.
Well, I think, uh, I think that'll be good.
So the bottom line is the, uh, the trees at California Park City land will
not be impacted by what's taking place, and I'm assuming that whatever plan
we have concerning, and I know council member Little and I have both been
talking about, you know, getting California Park upgraded,
uh, I'm sure there'll be plenty of time for public to see plans,
give us input, town meetings, and, uh, see where we go there.
So it'll be a collaborative process between the city and the community and.
They're not gonna just wake up and all of a sudden see something's there.
Take it or leave it.
Uh, correct.
OK, thank you, sir.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
Um, on August 4th, I, we will be holding,
uh, South Huntsville Town Hall at 6 o'clock at the Moon Center in the band
rehearsal room.
We hope this is maybe the last time we will be meeting in the band rehearsal
room.
We look forward to getting into the.
The new event hall, uh, the speaker on August 4th at 6 o'clock will be our
long range planner Dennis Madsen.
He will be, uh, presenting an update on the big picture plan.
It's a 10 year plan and, uh, and there are some exciting things to,
to see and also to talk about what the next steps are.
So join us on August 4th at 6 o'clock.
We will also have a report on the completion of the Moon Center.
I also want to extend thanks to um our sanitation workers who worked extra
hours this past week to uh pick up recycling.
Um, after the July 4th holiday, we had some significant delays in recycling
pickups.
The blue can in front of our house sat out there for 10 days,
and that is inexcusable.
And so I just want to go on record, uh, to let our friends at the,
the Solid Waste Disposal Authority know that,
uh, we need a new contractor.
For our recycling.
Uh, we've needed it for a while and this sort of was the last,

[01:15:00]
the last time, last excuse, and I hope it's the last time our sanitation
workers have to make up their shortfall.
Um, so many thanks to Chris McNee and everyone in,
in Public Works and sanitation who helped,
um, ran a catch up.
We'll move on to the finance committee report.
14A is a resolution authorizing expenditures for payment.
Mr.
Meredith, I move for the authorization and approval of expenditures in the
amount of 30 million.
Uh, $15,087.43.
2nd by second for Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
14B.
Is there a report?
Oh, I'm sorry.
No, not tonight.
Thank you.
14B is an ordinance approving appropriations,
goods or services for District One council Improvement funds.
The chair makes the motion.
2nd, 2nd from Ms.
Watkins.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to share with us this?
Yes, uh, Real Fathers Making a Difference Incorporated is a nonprofit that
works directly with parents and, uh, males specifically at youth risk to
assist them in being successful.
Um, I have observed and seen this program for the last 4 or 5 years,
and, uh, Mr.
Smith, who runs the program is hands on in this program.
To the point that he visits the school, talks with the teacher,
talks with the principal about behavior and grades,
um, I've seen the impact that he had on these young men's lives to the point
that when they age out of the program, they don't wanna leave.
He has to actually tell them, you gotta fly the nest now.
So I'm appropriating these funds because I believe in this program and we
need someone working with our youth at this point that has an impact.
Any discussion, Mr.
Meredith?
No real discussion, but I, I just wanna concur.
I think, uh, that Mr.
Smith has done an excellent job of, of, of conducting,
uh, this program.
He, uh, does not ask for much, um, and has been,
is Ms.
Watkins said, so influential over so many lives that,
um, it, it's a pleasure, uh, to be able to,
uh, to vote in favor of this.
The other all in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
Uh, we now have board appointments to be voted on.
Council members note that 15A and B both require 4/5,
um, vote of the council to approve since Mr.
Little is not here.
Um, we will be asking for a motion to postpone to the August 13th meeting
with both of these items.
15A is a resolution to reappoint.
I'm, I'm sorry, is, is.
Yeah, I, I understand, but I think they're gonna get 4/5.
Is there really a need to postpone?
I, I just offer that up.
It's, it's in fairness to the nominee and also the,
the organization that we need to have all council members present.
That's fine.
15A is a resolution to reappoint David Nast,
the museum board of the city of Huntsville to his current seat for a six-year
term to expire August 13th, 2032.
The chair moves to postpone consideration to the August 13th meeting.
We need a motion in a 2nd 1st, but uh.
I, I don't see anybody saying no to it, but motion,
you know, it, it, OK, is there, is there a motion to approve motion to approve.
Thank you.
A motion from Ms.
Merrith, second from the chair, a motion to postpone consideration to the
August 13th meeting, uh.
I guess motion to approve that.
Thank you.
A second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate, uh, a consideration is postponed to the August
13th meeting.
Uh, 15B is a resolution to reappoint Joyce Griffin to the museum board of
the City of Huntsville to her current seat for a six-year term to expire
August 13th, 2032.
Is there a motion to approve Motion second from Ms.
Watkins.
The chair moves to postpone consideration to the August 13th meeting.
Is there a second from Mr.
Kling?
All in favor, please indicate, um, the motion,
the, uh, consideration is approved the August 13th meeting.
15C is a resolution to reappoint Mark Harberger to the Huntsville Downtown
Redevelopment Authority Group C, his current seat for a six-year term to
expire July 26, 2032.
Is there a motion for Ms.
Watkins?
Second from Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor, please indicate you opposed.
The motion carries.
Uh, 15D is a resolution to reappoint John Burbach to the Huntsville Downtown
Redevelopment Authority Group C is current seat for a six-year term to expire
July 26, 2032.
Move to a motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries 15 E.
A resolution to appoint Sharon Beauclaire to the Huntsville Downtown Redevelopment
Authority Group C to the seat previously held by Joseph Clark for a six-year
term to expire July 26, 2032.
Move to approve motion for Ms.
Watkins.
Second for Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate motion carries.

[01:20:03]
Uh, we have several board appointment nominations.
These are nominations only.
They will be considered at the August 13,
2026, um, council meeting.
16A is a nomination to reappoint Steve Thornton to the Vonn Braun Center
Board of Control to his current seat for a four-year term to expire August
27, 2031.
16B is a nomination to.
Appoint Lynn Troy to the Von Braun Center Board of Control to her current
seat for a four-year term to expire August 27,
2030.
16C is a nomination to appoint Vicky Guerreri to the Housing Board of Adjustments
and Appeals to the seat previously held by Robert Jones for a five-year
term to expire August 22, 2031.
16D.
Is a nomination to appoint Zachary Hester to the Human Relations Commission
place two due to the resignation of Tracy Harris for the remainder of a
four-year term to expire September 30, 2027.
16E is a nomination to appoint Emily Rogers,
the Early Works Museum Board Place 3 to the seat previously held by Joanna
White for a three-year term to expire June 26,
2029.
16F is a nomination to appoint Joanna White to the Early Works Museum Board
Place 8.
Due to the resignation of Joshua McCoy for the remainder of a three-year
term to expire June 26, 2028.
And again, these will be taken up.
At the August 13th meeting we have no utility items.
We have no legal department items, uh, and one unfinished item of unfinished
business.
19A is an ordinance concerning a franchise agreement between the city of
Huntsville, Alabama and Limestone County Water and sewer authorities.
The motion to approve motion, Mr.
Mayor, second from the chair.
Are there any questions regarding this?
It's just right, right away.
OK, Ms.
Was anyone available to come up.
Mr.
Davis, for the listening audience, will you tell them what this is,
please?
Yes, ma'am.
Uh, so good evening, Council Shane Davis,
director of Urban Economic Development.
So, uh, as we provide utilities across our city limits,
our city limits is very broad, uh, especially when it comes to water.
Uh, there are territorial rights by law with A&M of certain service areas
for water utilities.
So you will see within the city limits of Huntsville,
um, we have.
Uh, the majority I would say is served by Huntsville utilities.
Of course there's a small percentage in actually in the Hampton Cove area
that actually is Madison County water customers because that is their territory.
And then as we get to the western corridor,
we actually have harvest Monrovia and Limestone County water.
Uh, we require them to, as they get in our Huawei,
to have a franchise.
So franchises get into, they will provide service.
They'll publish their rates, but also as we'd make road improvements,
say we widen the road.
Uh, we want that franchise such that they will relocate their utilities
at their cost.
Uh, so that's what this is doing is, uh, as we've annexed south of I-565
in the rapidly growing Swancott Road Area District 5,
we need to, uh, provide Limestone County Water and Sewer Authority,
uh, franchise in that area to, uh, subdivisions actually that have some
CEOs.
Uh, such that we need to get water there,
uh, so we're expanding their franchise, their ability to operate within
the corporate limits of the city of Huntsville.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis.
Yes, ma'am.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate.
All opposed.
The motion carries.
OK.
It brings us to 2 new item, new business items for consideration or action.
These items will be approved in one motion unless any council member wishes
to remove an item for discussion.
The reading of each item will be waived unless the council member requests
otherwise.
Council members, which items would you like held for separate consideration?
I would like EFG.
J and X.
E F G J X X.
OK.
Anybody have any other items?
What's the last one after J E F G.
Jay.
And X.
And, um, Mr.
Meredith, Mr.
Klein, and, uh, chair would like to hold items L,
M, and AD.
I'm holding AD just AD is the one that was added at the last.
AD, the one that was added at the last just for transparency.
So we're holding EFG JLM X and AD.
So the chair moves for approval items, uh,
28, consolidation and approval of items 20A to D,
20H and I, 20K, 20N.
To W 2 Y to AC seconded by Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
We'll begin with item 20E.
20E is an ordinance appointing the election officials for the August 25,

[01:25:01]
2026 city council municipal election and if necessary,
the September 22, 2026 runoff election.
Is there a motion to approve?
Move to approve motion Prince Watkins second from Mr.
Meredith, um, Miss, uh, Edwards.
Good evening council, Mayor Battle.
The item before you is an ordinance to include the 225 election officials
for the 26 precincts that we will open for the upcoming election.
I'll be glad to take any questions.
What questions do we have?
A comment.
Um, I held these three items because I want the public to understand what
we're doing with the election.
Thank you, Ms.
Edwards.
And just to note, the same poll workers will be utilized if we have a runoff.
Very good.
Any other comments or questions?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
Then the next item is 2020 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter
into an agreement for election custodial services,
uh, between the city of Huntsville and Madison County,
Alabama.
Is there a motion to approve?
Motion from Mr.
Kling, second from the chair.
Questions?
Good evening, counsel Shandria Edwards.
The resolution before you is the agreement with Madison County.
They will provide all voting machines.
There will be 43 utilized, but in the number you see before you,
it does say it's 43 we will utilize, but we are paying for 6 additional
spares, so you will see 49.
That we are paying for and that's for an estimated total cost of $76,930
and that will also include printing materials for elections training supply
kit materials as well as postage for the border registrars.
Any questions?
I have a question.
Um, you, we have 6 backups, um, over the history of our elections at the
municipal level, how often do we use backups?
Not often.
And after talking to a probate judge, we just came up with the number,
you know, what makes the most sense.
We hope we have no technical difficulties what we're praying for,
but we came up with 6 just to say we have it available should it occur,
and we have not in the past, to my knowledge,
had that happen.
So, oh, OK, even better.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
All in favor, please indicate I opposed.
Motion carries.
20G is the resolution authorizing the mayor to accept price quote.
From Election Systems and Software Inc.
for all ballots and supplies, provisional kits,
express vote cards, and programming coding of three ballot styles,
data conversion fees, L&A testing machine testing of poll books,
and on-site support for the August 25, 2026 municipal election.
Is there a motion to approve?
Some move motion from Ms.
Watkins, second from the chair.
That is a whole lot you got going on there.
It's, we're excited about the upcoming election.
Hopefully you won't see very much coming up.
This should be the bulk of it, but we're excited and we're ready.
The resolution before you is for the 43 machines for the upcoming election,
all ballots, supplies, provisional kits, express vote cards,
programming for all 3 ballot styles, data conversion,
programming, as well as two election day technicians for support should
we have any issues across the 26 precincts for an estimated cost of $37,000.
Any questions for Ms.
Edwards?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
Thank you, Ms.
Edwards.
2020J is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a construction
agreement for a federal age project between the city of Huntsville and Alabama
Department of Transportation for bridge replacement on Sparkman Drive over.
Pin Hook Creek project number 71-26-SP49 and L project number demo-A245.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith, second from Ms.
Watkins.
Mr.
Davis, good evening, Council member Shane Davis,
director of Urban Economic Development.
Um, it seems to be a District one night tonight.
Um, this project is in District one, so.
Uh, we would be, uh, should you approve this,
we'll be accepting a $2 million allocation of federal funds for,
uh, partial replacements Parkman Bridge, uh,
just off the west side of Memorial Parkway.
Uh, we, we must, uh, give acknowledgments,
uh, sent to Katie Britt who is providing this.
Uh, we made an application to, uh, this bridge is very unique in that,
uh, it is a local bridge from a maintenance standpoint.
But as the parkway or US 231 was widened years ago and the overpass at Sparkman,
this bridge is just west of the overpass.
It actually lies in Aldot right away.
But, um, at the end of the project, the federal aid project they gave us
because it's a local road, gave us the bridge,
so we felt, uh, that it was in kind of a gray area of being in actually
federal right away but a local bridge, and,

[01:30:02]
and, uh, Ms.
Britt agreed and got us $2 million allocation to go with our,
uh, local funds, uh, to do some, uh, major bridge upgrades to,
to this apartment bridge.
Uh, the, the amount of allocation is $2 million and then the local city
match would be $500,000.
Questions.
I have questions.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis.
Yes ma'am.
All in favor, please indicate you opposed.
The motion carries.
OK.
20L is the resolution authorizing the mayor to execute modification number
1 to the agreement between the city of Huntsville and Rosales and Partners
Inc.
for engineering design services for US Highway 231 and US Highway 431 pedestrian
and bicycling bridge project number 71-24-BR.
02, is there a motion to approve some motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from the chair.
Mr.
Davis, can you, uh, the Sky Bridge has been of great public interest,
and so I thought just for clarity and transparency,
would you share with us what we're doing here?
Yes, ma'am.
Thank you, Madam President.
Uh, so Council Mayor, as you're aware, uh,
we have a large project that has begun.
Uh, downtown that goes from Holmes Avenue lost the western bank of Penhook
Creek crosses Clint Avenue, goes down the west bank of the Von Braun Center,
crosses over Memorial Parkway, US 231, also US 431 AK Governor's Drive,
and, uh, stops just south of Low Mill.
Uh, that includes channel widening, flood mitigation,
a new 13 acre linear park.
Uh, channel restoration, aquatic restoration within Penhook Creek today,
as you're well aware, it looks like a, a red mud ditch.
Uh, it will not look that way.
So we have bid phase one, which is the flood mitigation and channel widening
and a lot of, uh, ready rock walls that you will see along the bank that
is about 5% started.
If you drive down Clinton Avenue, you'll see a large duck bank going underground
to move a lot of utilities in that.
Uh, this change order, our, our, our modification number one and should
be final by the way, is with our bridge designer,
uh, so Rosales Partners is designing 5 bridges,
uh, a bridge that links the new Linear Park and heart of Huntsville back
into, uh, our canal, uh, between Embassy Suites and the BBC,
that Thrasher Fountain area so that you could go from Big Spring Park onto
the Linear Park and this new Gateway Greenway,
if you call it.
Uh, one that will link from the park in the Greenway to the medical mall,
the, the medical district, and then the three large bridges that have got
the most attention that AK has been gotten deemed the sky bridge.
Um, so as we got some federal aid for that project,
this project has been around, it started as an Army Corps Engineer project,
and, uh, we said, can we make it a local project because it was stuck in
a funding cycle that just seemed to never move forward.
Uh, we did that about 5 years ago as we started designing this project.
We designed it as a city city project.
As we got the federal funds, uh, we quickly was very easily to convert our
local design plans to federal and state standards,
but we had to ask our bridge designer to do the same,
uh, and go through a federal peer review of that design.
Uh, this $69,000 completes all of that such that we can,
uh, bid this project in the first quarter next year.
So to go along with.
The channel widening and the greenways, there'll be two more things that
will come for council.
One would be the actual construction contract of these five bridges would
be in one contract.
And then as we get further enough along with the sky bridges and the river
walk, if you will, and the linear part, the last package that will come
before you probably in late 27.
Uh, will be what we call the hardscape.
It will be all the pretty stuff the landscaping,
the trees, the benches, uh, the bike repair stations,
and, and, and that portion.
We, those are all specialized contractors.
We didn't wanna lump this into one big contract.
We think it's more economical to break it in these phases so that we have,
uh, contractors that is their style of work without a markup of a,
a big prime GC.
So this is to finalize the plans, in short.
Uh, to get them ready to, to bid for federal standards first quarter next
year.
So this is an effort to make sure we're doing everything right.
Yes, ma'am.
Thank you.
Any questions?
All in favor, please indicate, uh, opposed.
The motion carries, uh, council members.
Thank you.
Mr.
Davis, 200m is a resolution authorizing mayor to enter a lease agreement
between the city of Huntsville and Green Mountain Volunteer Fire Department
Chair moves for approval.
Second from Mr.
Watkins Ms.
Watkins.
I'm sorry, Ms.
Watkins, and I was calling Mr.
Hamilton, and Ms.
Watkins, Mr.
Hamilton, thank you.
Council members, uh, part of our, uh, fire response and medical response
capability up on Green Mountain is shared with,
uh, the volunteer fire department that has served that community for quite

[01:35:02]
some time and so they are, they are a great partner and then extend our
capability there.
That area is in the coverage of one of our full-time fire stations down
at the bottom of the mountain, but, uh.
Because of the kind of the unique nature of some of the properties there,
the work that the volunteer fire department does is also very,
very helpful to us as part of that, there's a specialized equipment that
we need them to have.
You may recall a few council meetings ago you accepted a donation,
uh, from the, from the volunteer fire department on the fundraising they
did to assist with purchasing that truck.
Uh, we will then combine our own capital fleet,
uh, funds with that to purchase the truck.
What's before you is a lease.
So essentially the city will own, uh, that piece of fleet.
It'll be our piece of equipment, but we will lease it back to them to use,
uh, in the service to the community there.
And how much will that lease be?
Uh, it should be at no cost.
Yeah.
Any other comments, questions?
This is, this just is a a great.
Community project where you have the $100,000 from the from private entities,
um, combining with city funds to meet the needs of a very unique community.
So thanks to everybody that was involved in that.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
20, what's our next one?
20X is a resolution authorizing the mayor to entering into a memorandum
of agreement between the city of Huntsville on behalf of the Huntsville
Police Department and the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency and the Alabama
Gulf Coast High Intensity Drug trafficking,
uh, area grant.
Is there a motion motion from Mr.
Kling, second from the chair, I believe Mr.
Hamilton, um, could you just tell us what we're doing here?
Council members, that is, uh, this will be acceptance of grant funds,
uh, from the state, uh, that reimburses us for overtime and other expenses
the police department incurs as a, as a member of this,
uh, drug task force.
Any questions for Mr.
Hamilton?
All in favor please indicate all opposed.
The motion carries.
And 20 AD.
This is the item, this is the item that was added to the agenda tonight.
20 AD is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into an equipment lease
agreement between the city of Huntsville and Brindley Mountain fire apparatus.
The chair moves for approval.
Second from Ms.
Watkins.
Our second fire truck, Mr.
Hamilton.
Yes, council members, first, thank you for,
for adding this to the agenda.
We've, uh, actually had multiple of our ladder trucks go down for maintenance
issues, uh, that have some long lead time parts and things associated with
them, uh, because of, uh, because of those unexpected issues,
we had difficulty providing the coverage that we really wanna have for ladder
trucks across the city.
Uh, fortunately we have Brindley Mountain fire apparatus.
It's kind of right here in our area and have trucks available for lease.
So what's before you is a lease that will allow us to,
uh.
Uh, bring one of their ladder trucks in for a period of time as we work
through the maintenance issues on our, on our permanent fleet.
Uh, so with your approval tonight we'll get that,
we'll get that ladder truck in service and the urgency of adding it to the
agenda tonight is that these fire trucks do not come along.
Uh, very often, and we need to act very quickly and can't wait for because
the next council meeting will be 3 weeks,
right?
Yeah, we really don't, we would, uh, we would prefer to not wait the 3 weeks
without the appropriate coverage.
Council members, thank you for permitting us to add it to the agenda.
Do you have any questions, Mr.
Meredith?
Housekeeping, um.
It would have been nice for each of us to have gotten a copy of that,
so I, I know I always keep record.
That's a great point.
We had actually talked about doing that and that did not happen.
That's on it.
Yeah, it, it is, you know, right now the lease authorize us to,
to do it for, uh, several months.
It's $360 a day.
That sounds like a lot, but a ladder truck is over $2 million and so actually
$360 a day is, uh.
It's not a bad price.
I, I, I didn't have any, uh, issue with that.
It's just, for I, I keep all the records and now I'm not gonna have a copy
of it.
We'll get you a copy.
We can make a copy.
Thank you.
I have a comment.
Just wanna say, um, because of the urgency,
we totally understand why this was added at the last minute and very happy
to support when it comes to life, health,
safety.
Thank you.
All right, all in favor, please indicate I oppose the motion carries.
Thank you.
Uh, we have several new business items, uh,
for introduction.
These are for introduction only and will be considered at the August 13th,
uh, 2026 council meeting.
21A is the introduction of an ordinance to amend ordinance number 89-79,
classification and salary plan ordinance.
21B is the introduction of an ordinance to amend the budget ordinance number
23-744 to modify.
By the authorized strength of departments.
21C is the introduction of an ordinance annexing 1.14 acres of land lying
on the north of Countess Road west of Jake Jim Drive.
21D is the introduction of an ordinance annexing 3.07 acres of land lying
on the west of Dupree Worthy Road, north and south of US Highway 72 West.
21E is the introduction of an ordinance annex.
Seeing 536.68 acres of land lying on the east of US Highway 72 East,

[01:40:03]
north and south of Little Cove Road, and 21F is the introduction of an ordinance
to declare property as surplus and authorizing the mayor to entry into a
purchase agreement between the city of Huntsville and API Huntsville LLC
in connection with the North Huntsville Target Shopping Center.
Um, that concludes our items for introduction.
We will move on to 2nd roster public comments,
and we have 4 people signed up.
This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons wishing to address the
council on matters relating to city business,
whether it's on the items or on the meeting agenda.
Again, we have 4 people who have signed up previous to this meeting.
When called, approach the microphone, state your name,
home address, and city of residence.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers shall refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and from making comments regarding the good name and character
of any individual.
I will call each person's name.
Please come to the microphone right there,
and I will also call the name of the person following so you can be ready
to come up and we can make this go as quickly as possible.
First, we will hear from Fatima Crawford,
and she will be followed by Ashley Douthat.
Miss Crawford, just come right up here and then Miss Dou would be prepared
to follow.
Good evening council members.
My name is Bettima Crawford, and I'm here with my husband and my son.
We need your address and I'm sorry.
OK, my address is 112 Hollybrook Drive, Northwest,
Madison, Alabama, 3575.
And what else did you need?
That's it, OK.
All right, and I'm here, my husband and my son Alfred the 2nd and Alfred
the 3rd.
Uh, we are the founders of We Feel Foundation that council member Meredith
mentioned earlier.
Um, we are committed to empowering families affected by hemophilia through
education, advocacy, and community support.
Um, before I begin, I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to council
member Meredith for taking the time to meet with our family and learn about
our mission.
Um, your encouragement and willingness to support,
um, our organization means more than you know,
so thank you.
Um, our journey began May 13, 2023 when our son Trey experienced an eight
hour nosebleed that would not stop.
That frightening two day hospital uh stay ended with a blood transfusion
that he had to receive, and it was through that medical emergency that we
learned that he has hemophilia, a rare inherited bleeding disorder.
Um, as our family underwent additional testing,
we discovered that our youngest son Cairo also inherited the hemophilia
mutation, and our youngest daughter Amaya is a carrier of the hemophilia
trait.
And what felt like a single moment changed our lives forever.
We found ourselves searching for answers,
resources, and a community that truly understood what our family was experiencing.
Um, so their journey inspired us to create We Feel Foundation so that no
family has to face that path alone.
Um, our motto is simple we care, we fight,
we feel.
In just 2 days we will host our first annual We Feel launch pad packed with
purpose experience at the West Huntsville Rec Center.
Um, tonight, um, we're here not to ask for anything,
um, we're simply here to introduce We Feel Foundation,
share our story, and let you know that we are committed to serving the families
of Huntsville.
We look forward to building meaningful relationships with each of you as
we work together to make our community stronger.
So thank you for your time, your service,
and the opportunity to introduce We Feel Foundation.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ms.
Crawford.
Thank you for joining us tonight.
We will now hear from Ashley Dowfitt, who will be followed by Samuel Bramblett.
Uh, my name's Ashley Dolfit.
I live at 44 Pine Street, Huntsville, Alabama.
Thank you.
Um, hello, everyone.
Good evening to you all.
I'm here tonight to address the traffic disaster that's been going on for
years in Providence.
I bought my first home in the newer part of Providence in January 2022.
I was so excited and that excitement was incredibly short-lived.
Soon thereafter, construction started on the behemoth 2020 at Providence
Apartments.
From that day until now, I have been living a daily living hell,
navigating these tight, short streets that are littered at every bend with
some type of delivery truck that blocks the taxpayer paid public roads.
I am here today not to ask, but to demand a second entrance.
I wish you all would have anticipated the traffic disaster you were creating
when you allowed the Sliman's to build this monstrosity.
In fact, whoever approved this without putting up proper signage,
street markings, and a second entrance needs to be reprimanded.
I hope you've learned from this and don't allow this to happen again anywhere
else in out in Huntsville.
If you think I'm the only annoyed resident,
you are wrong.
My other neighbors are too busy slaving away to a corrupt tax system that
steals half of what we make to be here.
But I promise you, come to Providence and bring this issue up,
and you will see how angry we all are.

[01:45:02]
We are all fed up with this traffic we are all fed up with this traffic
catastrophe.
There are 5 things that I'm demanding to be done and be done now.
Number 1, get us a second entrance built through Paramount Drive.
This is the easiest and quickest resolution for our problem.
The majority of my neighbors agree we need this done yesterday.
And when you do this, please remove back the median that impedes at the
intersection of Gates Mill and Hillcrest.
It is creating a traffic hazard by blocking part of the street.
We also need more lighting at that intersection.
As it is impossible to see pedestrians at night,
especially if it's raining, this is a very pedestrian heavy area with residents
crossing to get to restaurants in Providence.
Number 2, we need no delivery signs installed on Town Center Drive,
Off Broadway, and Gates Mill Streets.
Number 3, we need Huntsville Police Department to frequent patrol these
3 streets and to ticket all offenders, no exceptions.
Number 4, we need a city official to immediately notify the leasing office
at 2020 at Providence that tenants moving in and out are not to block the
roads with their moving trucks.
They're responsible for their tenants, and they must make their tenants
aware of this.
These tenants are now becoming the number one offender of this issue.
The final thing we need is for Providence Main Street to be repaved in front
of Spring Hill Suites.
This was promised years ago and was supposed to be done when 2020 at Providence
was completed per traffic engineering.
That street took a beating during the construction of 2020 at Providence.
Please help us as you are the only ones who can help.
We are depending on you to fix the wrong that you allowed in the first place.
Thank you, council member Meredith and Shane Davis for all of your help
so far.
Thank you, Ms.
Tawlett.
We will now hear from Samuel Bramblett, who will be followed by Joseph Lee.
Hello counsel.
Uh, my name's Sam Bramblett.
Uh, I live at 101 Liberry Road, Meridianville,
Alabama.
Um, I'm a third generation Huntsvillian.
Uh, wanted to bring to the council's attention the lack of,
uh, public information regarding the use of flock cameras,
uh, in the city.
Uh, if you look at the open source map deflock,
there is a, a lot of flock cameras inside the city.
Um, has the council considered, uh, where,
who owns the data, data retention, uh, the,
the public oversight?
I, I have not seen much information concerning how this is like helped our
community.
Uh, it would be good to put that data out there,
uh.
If, if it exists and just more transparency.
Uh, FACC was established in Huntsville in 2022.
I have a quote from the Huntsville, uh, Police Department public information
officer Chris Jackson.
Uh, when time is critical, this technology can assist investigators in locating
suspects, recovering stolen vehicles, and finding missing,
missing persons.
Uh, my question is, are there any stat, uh,
statistics to back this up?
Uh.
Huntsville is on the national network, which means any flock customer can
view our, our cameras, uh, and.
What's shown on them.
So to me, I mean, Huntsville is obviously a big DOD industry.
Um, is this not a maybe a national security threat if,
if, if we have a centralized database of a bunch of engineers,
uh, and people that are, are critical to the Department of War now,
uh, I would like the council to consider that.
Um, the, these, these cameras don't just track,
uh, cars, they, they track people and, and phones through Bluetooth,
through our unique Bluetooth signatures on our phones.
Uh, there's been hundreds of cases so far of misuse by local authorities
nationwide.
I could list a, a few examples, but, uh, I just wanna reiterate that we're
lacking, uh, transparency, uh, with, with how our data is collected,
how long, how what's the retention policy.
Uh And that's all.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for joining us.
And our last person we will hear from is Mr.
Joseph Lee.
Is Mr.
Lee still here?
Yeah, I think he left.
Mr.
Lee, Mr.
Lee left, so we'll take his name off the list.
Um, council members, that concludes our citizen comments.
And is there a motion to adjourn the meeting before we do that?
I know it's unusual, but I'd like to address,
um, not really address but inform.
The last speaker that I've been getting a lot of constituent concerns about
Flock, uh, and my next town hall will be about the flock cameras so,
um, pay attention to my, um, postings and you will be informed and the chief

[01:50:00]
and Mr.
Hamilton and I have also had meetings with folks who are concerned about,
uh, license plate readers and also the informing about the success that
the police have had in using them, um, so perhaps that's something that
we might.
Information we might share more broadly sounds great,
but with that said, it's gonna I do make the motion to,
no, I do make the motion to adjourn.
The meeting is adjourned at 7:19.
Thank you all very much.
