[00:01:00]
Good evening everyone.
It is 5:30 on Thursday, August 27th, 2026,
and this meeting of the Huntsville City Council is called to order.
Welcome to everyone who has joined us in the chambers or who is joining
us remotely.
All members of the council are present.
We will begin, as is our practice, with an invocation offered by one of
our, uh, Huntsville, Alabama public safety chaplains.
Tonight we have Rachel Harper with us, and that will be followed by the
Pledge of Allegiance offered by council member John Meredith.
All those who wish to and are able to do so,
please stand for the invocation and the pledge.
Father, we come to you tonight as a grateful people for all the many blessings
that you have afforded us and for the opportunity that we have each and
every day to live in such a great nation.
Father, I'm thankful for our leaders and for their hearts to serve,
Lord and.
I ask Father that we never ever take lightly the responsibilities that we
have as servant leaders.
I pray for continued blessings over our city and for wisdom,
Lord, over our city council in decisions made tonight.
Lord, we pray for safety for all the men and women.
Who, who give their lives, their lives on the line every day for your service
and the protection of us.
Lord, we just ask all these things in your precious name.
Amen.
To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which
it stands, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice.
Thank you, Chaplain Harper.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
Council members, you have the agenda before you.
Please note that item 8A will require executive session.
Are there any changes or additions to be made to the agenda?
Hearing none of the agenda will be approved.
Uh, you also have, um, the minutes of the regular meeting of the city council
held on August 13, 2026.
Are there any additions or changes to be made to those minutes?
Seeing none, the minutes will stand approved.
We have two recognitions tonight.
6A is a presentation recognizing the 65 year legacy of Big Ed's Pizza,
and Mr.
Little, I believe you will be making that presentation.
Oh.
Our friends from Big Ed's here.
Pizza It doesn't right there.
All right, come on down, sir.
And I'm sorry I didn't bring you guys any food.
Yeah, yeah, if he didn't hear, he said he didn't bring us any pizza,
so we're going to go ahead and vote this out when I leave here.
So that's OK.
We'll swing by.
Thank you.
I'd like to change my vote to a nay.
If he didn't bring us food, then I'm changing my vote tona.
Well, Mayor Battle didn't bring me Britlin's either,
so just saying.
So yes, well, that's, that's, uh, holding on to a grudge if you're bringing
back Britlin's.
That's when we used to eat there, yeah.
Oh yeah.
Well, I'm sure everybody that's lived in Huntsville for any amount of time
has heard of Big Ed's Pizza celebrating 65 years of business in Huntsville,
which is quite a testament to good pizza.
Um, I did a little, um, uh, research, and I can only find about 5 or 6 businesses
that are still around as long as Big Ed's.
So that's really great.
And this is a certificate recognizing that great,
uh, the outstanding food and tradition and community service and it's signed

[00:05:02]
by everybody on the council and the mayor too.
Yeah, so congratulations.
Yeah, yeah.
Congratulations.
6B is a presentation recognizing the dedicated volunteers of the Chaffee
community, and it is my honor to make that presentation representing the
Chaffee community tonight we have Mr.
Lyle Boyles and Mr.
Bill Gould.
Mr.
Boyles, Mr.
Gould, will you come up please?
Well, you, you stay there and I'll stand up.
That's, that feels right.
That feels right.
If you didn't know, the Chaffee community has the one of the oldest and
largest civic associations in the community.
They are a neighborhood that is well connected.
They are a neighborhood that really cares about their community.
Community and tonight we're honoring them particularly for the unique service
that they provide to caring for Logan Park in collaboration with Parks and
Recreation.
So Mr.
Gould, would you share with us what it is you do?
Sure, so, uh, starting in 2011.
The CNCA, the Chaffee Neighborhood Civic Association,
reached an agreement with the city to take responsibility for opening and
closing and basically tending to the park,
keeping an eye on things, letting them know our problems and issues,
calling in when somebody was in there when they shouldn't be,
and activities going on.
Lyle here was one of that first group.
He was the actual founding member of it, and he's still in the rotation
today.
Every once in a while he forgets his key,
we've got to get it for him, but.
But a group of 6 teams.
Every week, every 6 weeks you get a rotation,
you take that week with a partner and somebody opens it in the morning,
opens the restrooms, checks the facilities to make sure that it's good,
and then somebody else or that same team.
Lyle does it by himself.
He can't find a good partner, I guess, uh,
we close it up every night when we see something we reach out so the.
The partnership with the parks department is amazing.
We are truly partners.
If we need something, we just reach out.
David Delier is my favorite pen pal.
I send him a note saying there's a toilet that's running or there's a trash
can that somebody took home as a souvenir,
and the next day it's done, it's fixed.
When we have issues, we can reach out to the police.
We had somebody who was living in the keeping their car living in the park
while they were visiting their girlfriend down the street.
The police department came over and helped us to clean that up.
We've been doing that now for 15 years.
We plan on doing it for a bit longer and we greatly appreciate the partnership
and the support that allows us to keep our precious little park safe and
clean and a great place for the families to spend time,
so thank you.
And I have 10 certificates here that I hope you will share with with all
the folks who are involved.
Yeah, if I could, those, those people are most of them still getting out
of work when we're starting this, so it's not a bunch of retirees that just
hang around and that's nothing to do but open and close the park.
They fit it in amongst everything else.
First thing in the morning, last thing at night,
we make sure that it's taken care of.
And Lyle, we were talking before the meeting started about why this is so
important and so do you want to comment on that?
You don't just take care of the park just to make it look nice.
Well, it's significant in the fact that the park was really.
Uh, it's, it's secluded off of the South Memorial Parkway.
It was dark.
There was a lot of nonsense going on in the park,
vandalism, things of that nature, and as a result of doing this now for
these years, that significantly reduced all of that.
And again, we're so grateful to the city for the support we get from several
of the departments, not just Parks and recreations,
but General Services and others are in there,
and we do appreciate that and thank the city for that.
And we're sharing this tonight not just because we want to recognize volunteers
and again here are the certificates we hope you'll share that,
but this is a model we hope other communities can use so thank you both
for your service thank you to all the volun the Chaffee volunteers and for
the work that they do.

[00:10:20]
All right, moving on.
We have AA matters with outside legal representation.
Uh, 8A is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a legal services
agreement with Riley and Jackson PC and affiliated co-counsel for the investigation
and prosecution of claims relating to the fire apparatus manufacturer antitrust
litigation.
Council members, we have been informed that there is a need for executive
session on this item before we vote.
So Mr.
Riley, could you share with us, um, that rationale?
Certainly, thank you, counsel President.
Uh, counsel, the, uh, uh, item number 8A tonight is a matter with outside
legal representative which will require executive session and which,
which we will request.
Executive session is uh something that is covered by the Alabama Open Meetings
Act founded Section 3625A7 of the Code of Alabama which provides that executive
sessions may be held by the council but only for the purposes.
Enunciated therein, there are some ones listed.
The pertinent provision for our consideration tonight,
for my opinion, is found at subdivision A3,
which is to discuss with the council's attorney the legal ramifications
of and legal.
Options for pending litigation or for controversies not yet being litigated
but imminently likely to be litigated or imminently likely to be litigated
if the government body pursues a particular or proposed course of action
before you go into executive session, the law requires,
uh, that the governmental body shall receive either a written or oral declaration.
That will be reflected in the minutes from an attorney licensed to practice
law in Alabama uh that this exception is applicable to that plan discussion
and I for the purposes of that requirement am a lawyer practiced for a long,
long time in the state of Alabama so I've been licensed uh for sure uh and
I confirmed this item does fall within the exception that we just discussed
allowing executive sessions.
Uh, and, uh, that, uh, I'm qualified to make that,
that determination.
So if you would ask for a motion, thank you,
Mr.
Riley.
The chair moves that the city council go into executive session to discuss
with our attorney the legal ramifications of and legal options for possible
litigation.
Second, for Mr.
Meredith, is there any discussion?
Question?
Yes, Mr.
Klein, I think just for the record, Mr.
Riley, there.
There's a rally at the law firm, but that is not related to you,
correct?
That is, if it is, it's so far back neither of us know.
So, uh, to my knowledge, there's no representation whatsoever,
no rec no, uh, relation whatsoever.
Thank you for clarifying that.
Any other discussion?
All in favor, please indicate.
Madam President, I believe we need a roll call vote for this.
Uh, if a roll call vote has been requested.
Mr.
Meredith, how do you vote?
Mr.
Kling, how do you vote?
Mr.
Little, how do you vote?
Ms.
Watkins, aye, and the chair votes aye.
We have unanimous consent to go into executive session.
Uh, we will reconvene the public meeting when we return.
Do you have an estimate of the time?
We do not.
Uh, we will, Mr.
O'Reilly, I would estimate between 50 to 15 to 30 minutes,
you, most likely on the short side of that.
We will reconvene, um, at the conclusion of our executive session.

[00:15:14]
That's a wise decision.
F I Thomas.
Hm.
Cope We have closed our executive session.
Let the record show there was no action taken.
Is there a motion to reconvene the public meeting?
Move to reconvene the motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate and opposed.
The public meeting is reconvened.
Is there a motion to approve item 8A moved motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Is there any discussion, Mr.
Mr.
Clink, uh, question, uh, Mr.
Riley, or Mr.
Trey Riley, city attorney, this is your recommendation for the council to
pursue, correct?
Yes, it is.
OK, thank you.
Are there, is there any other discussion?
Ms.
Watkins.
Well, uh, all in favor, please indicate any opposed?
The motion carries.
Thank you all.
Uh, we'll move on to public hearings to be held.
9A is a public hearing in order to consider and act upon all objections
or protests, if any, for removal of a public nuisance at 4704 Cabot Drive,
Northwest, Huntsville, Alabama in consideration of resolution ordering abatement
of a nuisance located at the same property.
Mister, um, Irwin.
Oh yes, Mayor Battle, council member Scott Irwin Community Development Department.
This public hearing is regarding the property located at 4704 Cabot Drive
Northwest.
The property was in violation of the state Public Nuisance Act regarding
junk.
Community Development issued notice to the property owner and industry parties,
and the property remains in violation.
Community Development is seeking your authorization.
To abate this junk public nuisance.
The condition of the property is before you on the video screen,
including photos from when the property was initially determined to be a
nuisance.
The owners and interested parties were notified to attend the city council
meeting in the council chambers where the objections could be heard regarding
the abatement of this nuisance.
Thank you, Mr.
Irwin.
The public hearing on item 9A is now open.
Is there anyone here who wishes to address the council regarding this item?
Seeing none, we will close the public hearing.
Is there a motion to approve, uh, the resolution?
Motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Are there any questions for Mr.
Irwin or any discussion?
Seeing none, all in favor, please indicate and impose.
The motion carries.
9B is a public hearing on authorization authorizing the demolition of an
unsafe building constituting a public nuisance located at 4204 Berry Street
Northwest, Huntsville, Alabama, and consideration of a resolution pertaining
to the same.
Mr.
Urban, yes.
The Resolution authorizes the demolition of an unsafe building constituting
public nuisance located at 4204 Berry Street Northwest.
The owners and interested parties were notified of this hearing by certified
and first class mail, and interested parties may be present tonight to voice
any objections.
We have photographs some of the property for your review on the screen.
An independent contractor inspected this property and determined it is not
structurally feasible to repair.
The 89% loss of the independent assessment of fire damage had and had extensive
interior damage, but the property has been declared unsafe.
No permits have been issued for repair or demolition.
An official notice was sent by certified and first class mail on July 2nd.
Requesting demolition and removal of the structure,
the owners of the entry parties verified that tonight would be the time
and place where objections could be heard.
Again, no action has been taken, so we're seeking your authorization to
abate this nuisance.
The public hearing on item 9B is now open.
Is there anyone here wishing to comment on this item?
Please come to the microphone.
If you will please give us your name and address for the record.
Uh, my name is George Macklin, 4204 Berry Street.
And um I talked to a buyer and I got a buyer that's going to buy it in September,
the property.

[00:20:01]
OK, thank you, ma'am.
Any other comments?
No, ma'am.
Thank you so much for sharing that.
Thank you.
Are there any other comments?
Public hearing is now closed.
Is there a motion to approve the resolution?
Move to approve motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from the chair.
Um, is there a discussion?
Mr.
Irwin, there is apparently a buyer for this property for September.
Does that change your recommendation?
Uh, no, Madam President, it does not.
This has been a project we've been working on since December of last year.
We are aware of the potential of a sale, so this,
this public nuisance.
Will be abated regardless of the sale.
New owners would be held to the same standard.
Uh, so if by the time we mobilize, it was at least 30 days before we're
ready for the demolition.
So we'll work with the, the existing or new owners,
uh, to get demolished by, uh, voluntary compliance.
OK.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carried, Madam, Madam President.
Yes, Ms.
Watkins, I don't think everyone heard all the council members that can we
do a roll call vote?
Mr.
Meredith, how do you vote?
Mr.
Kling, how do you vote?
Mr.
uh, Ms.
Watkins, aye, and chair votes aye.
The vote is unanimous.
Thank you.
Uh, we will move to 9C.
9C is a public hearing on authorizing the demolition of an unsafe building
constituting a public nuisance located at 3042 Boswell Drive,
Northwest, Huntsville, Alabama, and consideration of a resolution pertaining
to the same.
Yes, this resolution again authorized the demolition of an unsafe building
constituting public nuisance at 3042 Boswell Drive Northwest.
The owners and industry parties were notified of this hearing by certified
and first class mail, and they may be present to voice any objections.
We have photographs of the property for.
View on the screen, an independent contractor inspected this property and
terminated it was not structurally feasible to repair and 90% loss.
Uh, the walls have come off the foundation.
The roof system has failed, so it was beyond an economical liability for
repair or renovation.
The property has been declared unsafe.
No permits have been issued for repair or demolition.
An official notice was sent by certified and first class mail on July 2nd.
Requesting demolition and removal of the structure,
the owners and industry parties were notified to attend this city council
meeting where objections could be heard.
No action has been taken, so we're now requesting the council's authorization
to abate this nuisance.
Thank you, Mr.
Irwin.
The public hearing on item 9C is now open.
Is there anyone here wishing to address the council regarding item 9C?
Seeing none, the public hearing is now closed.
Is there a motion to approve this item?
Move to approve motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from Ms.
Watkins.
Is there any discussion?
Questions from Mr.
Irwin?
I do have one question.
I noticed on the photos this was May 19th.
I'm, that's a little while ago.
I'm assuming that nothing has gotten better in the interim.
You've had someone check it.
Yeah, it was checked most recent this afternoon,
so there have been no changes, uh, since the original photos.
OK, all in favor, please indicate aye, aye,
any opposed.
Motion carries.
Thank you.
9D is a public hearing on authorizing community development to assess the
cost for the cleanup of public nuisances located at certain properties in
Huntsville, Alabama in consideration of a resolution pertaining to the same.
Yes, Madam President, this is a public hearing on a resolution authorizing
community development to assess the cost for the cleanup of junk public
nuisances located at 3607 Princes Street and 4906 Clarity Road Northwest.
The resolution before you authorizes an assessment,
two assessments in the total amount.
Of $6,752.94.
All procedural requirements relate to the declaration and cleanup of public
nuisances have been fulfilled in accordance with the state of Alabama Public
Nuisance Act.
Property owners were notified that an assessment may be authorized and placed
upon their property at this city council meeting in which they will have
the opportunity to appear and present any objections to the assessed cost.
Thank you.
Is there anyone here wishing to comment?
or the public hearing is now open for item 90.
Is there anyone here wishing to comment on this item?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve this resolution?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Does anyone have questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed.
The motion carries.
Thank you, council members.
Thank you, Mr.
Irwin.
9E is a public hearing on authorizing the finance director to issue a taxi
license to Shasha Potsco Jennings, doing business as Jennings Local Transport
for the operation of 3 taxis and consideration of a resolution pertaining
to the same.
Uh, Ms.
Bryant, good evening.
Keisha Bryant, director of parking and public transit.
This item is a public hearing to authorize our finance director to issue
a taxi license to Mr.

[00:25:00]
Jennings, doing business as Jennings Local Transport.
He plans to operate 3.
Taxis under this business license.
He has completed his application and passed his background check and also
paid the fee for the license and so he is due to proceed.
Thank you, Ms.
Bryant.
The public hearing on item 9E is now open.
Is there anyone here who wishes to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve the resolution?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from Mr.
Kling.
Any comments, Mr.
Meredith.
Uh, Ms.
Bryant, um, this is specifically for 3 taxis.
If he wanted to add additional taxis, does that have to come before the
council, or is that just added?
No, so a taxi company requires 3 at the minimum.
So anything above the 3, he would not have to come.
To counsel, but he would have to bring the vehicle to our office for inspection,
metering, and, um, tagging.
Thank you very much.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
Thank you.
9F is a public hearing on the zoning of 24.67 acres of land lying on the
north side of University Drive east of Providence Main Street to Highway
Business C4 District and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the
same.
Mr.
Nunez, good evening, council members.
uh, Madam President, Thomas Nunez, manager of planning and zoning services.
This item is located north side of University Drive and east of Providence
Main Street.
Uh, this property was recently annexed into the city of Huntsville.
Uh, petitioners are seeking to zone the property Highway Business C4 for
commercial, retail, and hospitality development.
Thank you, Mr.
Thomas.
Is, uh, there anyone here who, oh, I'm sorry,
Public hearing is now open for item 9F.
Is there anyone who wishes to comment on this item?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Any discussion?
All in favor, please indicate.
Aye, any opposed?
The motion carries.
9G is a public hearing on the zoning of 1.98 acres of land lying on the
north side of Capshaw Road west of Waltrina Highway to neighborhood Business
C1 District and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the same.
Mr.
Nunez, Council members, this item is located north side of Capshaw Road
and west of Waltriana Highway.
Uh, petitioners are seeking to zone the property neighborhood business C1
District, uh, for a property that was recently annexed into the city of
Huntsville.
Uh, the proposal here is for a commercial,
retail and office development.
Thank you.
Is there, oh, the public hearing on 9G is now open.
Is there anyone here who wishes to comment on item 9G?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Any discussion?
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed?
The motion carries.
9H is a public hearing on the rezoning of 12.5 acres of land lying on the
east side of Lehman Ferry Road and north of Phil Dots Drive from commercial
recreation C5 District to highway business C4 District and consideration.
of an ordinance pertaining to the same, Mr.
Nunez, Council members, this is a rezoning request,
uh, city imposed rezoning request for the east side of Lehman Ferry Road
and north of Philip Dodds Drive from commercial recreation C5 District to
Highway Business C4 District.
Uh, the property in question is actually of Joe Davis Stadium in the Wicks
Family Field.
However, uh, this will rezone the area in question to Highway Business C4,
which will bring it up to the proper boundaries or the primary and proper
boundaries of John Hunt Park, um.
Yeah, for the official John Hall Park portion.
So The public hearing on item 9H is now open.
Is there anyone who wishes to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed,
is there a motion to approve?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from Mr.
Meredith.
Are there any questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
Thank you, council members.
Thank you, Mr.
Nunez.
We have no public hearings to be set.
Uh, we have no agenda related public comments.
So this brings us then to Mayor Battle, Mayor's comments.
Thank you, uh, Madam President, and, and council members.
Uh, first off, uh, we would like to congratulate Columbia High School.
Uh, they won their football game Saturday night.
Um, Quite a few of us were there and it was a,
it was a great, um, it, it was a great matchup.
They went down 14 to 0 in the 1st, 1st 2 times that,
uh, Greensboro got the ball, they went down 14-0,
then they fought back and they ended up winning 41-14.
Uh, so it was a great game and, um, and it broke a 101 game losing streak.
So, uh, we're, we're congratulations to Columbia,

[00:30:00]
and I think you'll, I think you'll see some other activities happening.
Uh, over the next, next couple weeks for that high,
high school, uh, this weekend, Sanford, it's gonna play UNA Saturday at,
uh, uh, at Joe Davis Stadium, uh, Wicks Field,
uh, should be a great game, a lot of fun,
uh, and please come out and join it.
Um, we'll be there and, uh, watching football at its best as,
as we see, um, Sanford playing UNA.
And also, uh, Saturday, the 10th anniversary of Rock Steady Boxing,
uh, this is a program that was put in place at John Hunt Park,
uh, for folks with Parkinson's, uh, it's a,
a rehabilitation process for those with Parkinson's,
and they'll be having their 10th anniversary,
um, I believe it's about 10 o'clock on Saturday there.
And also this week, um, I had the opportunity to go out on the arsenal to
the ribbon cutting for, uh, the Defense Intelligence agencies.
Uh, material exploitation, uh, facility, which is a huge facility,
um, the people out there are to be congratulated for the work that they've
done year after year.
They, they keep our country safe.
And finally, uh, on a sad note, um, we, uh,
memorialized, uh, the signage out on Highway 72,
uh, East.
Uh, for, um, Billy Clarty the 3rd, he was one of our police officers,
one of our finest, uh, who was killed in the line of action,
uh, and, uh, this sign will, will stay in memorial,
uh, fashion for Billy Clarty, uh, to for people to remember his sacrifice
and what he did for our city, uh, many, many,
uh, many years ago.
So thank you.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
We will move on to item 13, council member comments,
and we will hear first from Council member Michelle Watkins.
No comments.
We will move on to council member Bill Kling.
Well thank you Madam President, first of all,
let me just say on a personal note, thank you to everyone within the district
who came out to vote and especially thank you to,
uh, all those folks who voted to uh reelect me.
Uh, I felt like, uh, it was a long hot summer.
There were some ups, there were some downs,
but I enjoyed the process of getting out into the neighborhoods perhaps
even more than I normally.
Do, uh, it's a learning process for me and I've heard some issues,
some concerns that people expressed.
I think there are things we can do, uh, talking about,
uh, how we up here can do our job a little bit better.
So I'm gonna be looking at things that I can suggest we could work on,
uh, to the council as a body to interact better with the public again we
have a great community.
We're all on the same team.
And we just went through a great process that I think a lot of people and
a lot of countries would like to have the option.
Uh, I am going to, as I said, continue my monthly town meetings,
of course, and, uh, give me a few days to kind of get my legs back,
probably Monday or Tuesday of next week.
Uh, I'll be back doing my little street patrols that I do,
and I think I got 1 mayor and 4 council members love it because it gets
me away from City Hall and again I'm working out in the neighborhoods.
We've got great department heads and we work to get whatever needed city
maintenance we can take care of so that action will be continued.
Certainly, I'll be a very strong booster for the,
uh, uh, upcoming, uh, I-565 at Memorial Parkway Interchange.
And also as we chase and continue the acceleration of the ring road around
the city, ride out road coming into Alabama Highway 255.
Now we're up to the Northern bypass and from there,
eventually Hampton Cove and then coming around just east of the Arsenal.
That ring road, again, I think will take a lot.
Off of the stress of the central portion of the city and I think that's
a great thing for our future as far as quality of life.
Again, stepping back, uh, we have a great city.
Uh, we've seen that by the way we've been recognized around the country.
Uh, we have challenges, of course, but again,
we do have many good things and we can be appreciative of that.
So again, I'm looking forward to the next 4 years,
and I think there are many great things that are going to be taking place.
And on one sad note, uh, this week, uh, we need to recognize the passing
of Libby Jones, who, um, had been the wife of Ray Jones,
who, uh, I think people throughout the community knew,
very wonderful, very smiling, beautiful woman who,
uh, was brought a cheer to everyone that she came in contact with,
and, uh, she will be greatly missed.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
We'll now hear from Council member David Little.

[00:35:01]
Thank you, Madam President.
um, I just want to, uh, give a quick shout outs to our transit team,
uh, police, engineering, public works, planning,
and home utilities for being responsive to citizen needs over the last few
weeks.
As always, I'm grateful as our citizens.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Little.
We'll now, uh, hear from council member John Meredith.
I want to start by uh.
Wishing a very happy anniversary to the best wife anybody could possibly
imagine having.
She knows who she is.
Um, the, the mayor stole my thunder, but,
uh, how about those Columbia High School football players?
Uh, wonderful group, um, and just for the record,
they are currently undefeated.
Want to also mention that I plan on having that forum on flock cameras here
in council chambers on September 16th.
It'll be at 4 o'clock and of course, as always,
the public is invited to come.
Talk to the uh issue area experts which is HPD NAMAC and other law enforcement
uh folks and um again the public is cordially invited to be here,
hear what they have to say, but also have the opportunity to question them.
Um, want to thank, um, Columbia High School and,
uh, the folks at the central office of, um,
HCS for inviting me, uh, on a sneak peek of the junior ROTC building there
at Columbia.
It is a fantastic state of the art building that,
um, I know they are looking forward to.
Um, getting into and also making available to all of the,
uh, ROTC programs within HCS schools.
Um, looking forward to the groundbreaking at Westmore Landing,
which will be on Monday, August 23rd at 1 p.m. Uh,
been looking forward to this project for quite a while.
It is, uh, going to bring that Providence style living to Limestone County.
And then finally, I wanna thank the Chamber of Commerce and the Research
Park Board for inviting me.
Uh, along with my District 5, representative counterpart for the Huntsville
City Schools, Carlos Matthews, to present medals at the UCI Paying World
Championships on Saturday, September 5th.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
And I will extend my congratulations to Mr.
Kling and Mr.
Little for their reelection to council, to Holly McCarty for reelection
to the school board, and Peyton Redfern, who is newly elected to the school
board as well, and thank all of those who offered themselves for public
service in this municipal election.
We'll go on to item 14.
The finance committee report.
14A is a resolution authorizing expenditures for payment.
Is there a motion to approve?
I, I move for authorization and approval of expenditures in the amount of
$53,617,414.27.
2nd, Mr.
Little, take the second.
Uh, any discussion on this?
I do have one question.
The number is unusually large.
Um Ms.
Smith, would you like to Um, offer a quick explanation to the public.
Certainly I'll be happy to.
Penny Smith, director of finance, within these numbers are two actually
very large, um, payments.
One is for our school system.
So as you are well aware, the school is, uh,
is moving through their capital plan and so they present to us some,
um, payments for, for that out of the debt that we have issued.
And so for the school system and so those payments came to um 14 14,400,000
and and change and then we had another payment that um a couple of um a
couple of months ago, um, the city council passed resolution 26414 purchasing
the assets, um, purchasing the food and beverages assets that were owned.
Um, by, by, um, by the Huntsville Venue Group and so that has that it took
a while to get all the inventory counted and make sure that all those numbers
were correct, so that payment actually went through on this particular item
as well and so between those two payments if you back those up we're back
down to about 27.7 million.
Any other questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed motion carries.
15.
This is board appointments to be voted on.
We have several.
15A is a resolution to reappoint Thornton Stanley Jr.
to the Board of Examinations and Appeals for Construction Industries.
Place 8, his current seat for a 3-year term to expire September 21,

[00:40:03]
2029.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Kling, second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate.
Aye, any opposed.
The motion.
15B is a resolution to reappoint Dennis Dean to the Board of Examinations
and Appeals for Construction Industries Place to his current seat for a
three-year term to expire September 21, 2029.
Motion for Mr.
Little second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please.
Yes sir.
You might want to specify you didn't on the last one,
but it requires 4/5 for passage, right, um.
All in favor please indicate aye, any opposed.
The motion carries.
15C is a resolution to reappoint Heather Bender to the Animal Services Advisory
Committee place to her current seat for a three-year term to expire September
8, 2029.
Is there a motion motion from Mr.
Merit?
2nd, 2nd from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
15 CD is a resolution to reappoint Colin Keller to the Animal Services Advisory
Committee.
Place 5, his current seat for a 3-year term to expire September 8,
2029.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate, uh, any opposed.
The motion carries.
15E is a resolution to reappoint Christopher Jason Smith to the Board of
Examinations and Appeals for Construction Industries.
Place 16, his current seat for a 3-year term to expire September 21,
2029.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate.
Many opposed.
The motion carries.
15F is a resolution to appoint Joshua Pennington to the Huntsville Police
Citizens Advisory Council Place 13 due to the resignation of Brian Webb
for the remainder of a vacant four-year term to expire August 21,
2027.
The motion from Mr.
Meredith, 2nd 2nd from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
15G is a resolution to.
Appoint Larry Durham to the Board of Examinations and Appeals for Construction
Industries Place 7 to the seat previously held by Russ Grimes for a 3 year
term to expire September 21, 2029.
Chair makes the motion.
Second for Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate.
I oppose any opposed.
The motion carries, and I think Mr.
Durham is here.
Thank you for your service.
Ah, we have no board appointment nominations,
uh, on the agenda.
Are there any nominations from the floor?
Then we'll go on.
Item 17, Huntsville utilities items.
Mr.
Gerdes, do you have a report for us?
Thank you, Council President Joseph Joe Gerdes.
I will almost call myself Joseph.
I never do that.
Joe Gerdes, Huntsville Utilities, and as promised,
uh, we're just here to answer any questions you may have.
Uh, nothing to report tonight.
We will appear at your next meeting with our FY 27 budget.
Thank you, sir.
Um, we appreciate you being here.
Of 18 legal department item transactions,
18A is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of two portions of a utility
and drainage easement tract one, Richland Park second edition containing
0.07 and 00.
And 0.
let me do that again, 0.07 and 0.11 acres.
Is there a motion to approve?
Move to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Any questions?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
The motion carries.
18B is a resolution authorizing the acceptance of a 0.528 acre tract of
land from North Valley Land LLC for a sanitary sewer easement off of Highway
53 at Blake Bottom Road.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
This brings us to unfinished business.
Business items for action 19A is an ordinance to declare certain real property
located at the intersection of Moores Mill Road and Vintage Drive as surplus
and authorize the mayor to enter into a purchase and sale agreement between
the city of Huntsville and Opian Incorporated.
Is there a motion, motion for Mr.
Little second from the chair.
Mr.
Davis is here with us, uh, to make a presentation.
Thank you, Madam President.
Good evening, Council Mayor Shane Davis, director of urban economic development,
so.
Uh, council members from time to time, probably 6 or 7 times a year,
we bring you real estate contracts for this council,
uh, in various forms.
Sometimes they're industrial development,
sometimes they're retail development, uh,
sometimes they're property that may be a,
a counter agency that we're, we're helping,
and, uh, tonight is one of those, uh, ordinances,
and when we do that, there's a two step process.
Uh, that's why it's an ordinance, so we must declare it surplus,
no longer needed for public use.
And then enter a purchase and sell agreement.
So that's what you're going to vote on here momentarily.
So I wanna give a little bit of history about this property,

[00:45:01]
about this property and how the city, uh,
came to acquisition of it.
So it's located in Chase Industrial Park.
Uh, the property is located fronting, uh,
Mooresville Road and was the former campus of Qualitas Pharmaceutical.
I think locally a lot of people refer to it as Props Pharmaceutical.
Uh, the city acquired the undeveloped portion of this back in about 2010
after the acquisition of Qualitasest Pharmaceuticals by Endo Pharmaceutical.
Uh, the Pope's family donated this land to the sea,
the undeveloped portion, uh, in the direction that it had three purposes
for which to dispose of it one, a public use or commercial or industrial
development.
They wanted to see good happen out of, out of it for the betterment of the
community.
So on this screen what I wanted to point out is,
uh, the, the pharmaceutical campus, uh, that you see kind of central to
it with the Ring Road, uh, those buildings are still active actually,
uh, TrialRX Pharmaceuticals is in the southernmost building,
uh, still in operation.
Uh, the building to the east is, is Lidos,
one of our defense contractors in, in our city with multiple locations,
and the building to the, to the north is more warehouse logistics storage.
Uh, I do want to point out that the dash yellow area was part of that original,
uh, acquisition by the city, and a couple years ago we,
in, uh, partnership with some property that allowed us to expand in John
Hunt Park.
Uh, this council approved a development agreement and real estate agreement
with Alabama National Guard for this to become one of their latest training
centers.
If you've been by there, that project is getting very near completion.
Completion.
It looks very nice, uh, very nice.
Uh, I do want to point out to the north and to the east of the Lidos building
that area has been reserved for the future northern bypass to connect to
US Highway 72, so that is the corridor being reserved for that as it would
cross Winchester Road, Mooresville Road, and come back to US 231.
So that leaves the southernmost portion, and that's what,
uh, we're presenting to you tonight.
So what's before you is a 15 acre site as you see,
uh, hatched out here, uh, the southernmost portion of uh the city property,
uh, purchase price is $1.126 million.
That is $75,000 an acre if, if you're doing the math,
uh, that is in conducive of the market rate for this area of Chase Industrial
Park and this Highway 72 area.
Uh, as we do with any real estate contract,
we want to make sure that the reason that you would vote to sell that that
project gets delivered to the community.
Should it not, there's a repurchase option.
Uh, so that's pretty standard in our contracts.
You always see those.
So there's 18 month purchase, a repurchase obligation should the project
not move forward.
The city has the right to regain the property at the same purchase price,
so there's no escalation that we'd pay more to,
to receive that property back.
So the proposed land use, so this property due to the utilities,
both public and private utilities in this area,
uh, we felt that this is good for the overall community.
Uh, the proposed use is a regional fiber networks switch facility,
so that's a big word, right?
Uh, what I wanted to describe to you in the public what that really means
is to get more efficient in delivering high speed,
long distance, reliable transmission.
And routing of existing fiber Internet service and and our data that we
send every day whether that's email storing uh social media or just conducting
business, uh, I like to um.
Adequate that to what the AT&T building just outside this,
uh, building we set tonight across the street here is to our phone network.
That building is a hub to distribute incoming and outgoing landline phone
service.
Uh, that building stretches and provides service all the way to Southern
Tennessee.
So think of this and very similar to that,
but for our existing fiber infrastructure through our city.
Um, there's additional benefits to the city,
uh, so the southernmost portion you see in red we are retaining,
and, uh, John Hamilton and the fire department in looking at long range
plans has identified this with the rapid growing area of East Huntsville
is a perfect location for a future fire station.
So in working with the purchaser in the layout of how they would build their
facility and connect to the fiber network and provide this better efficiency
and more high speed service throughout the region,
uh, they've agreed in their layout to build a new road for which our fire
station would gain access to, uh, there, so,
uh, that would be at no cost to the city.
And the proceeds from this, should you approve this tonight,
uh, the administration would like to take those proceeds,
put them in the 1990 plan to help fund this project.
Council members, uh, it, it, it's, it's not a lot.

[00:50:02]
It's not very complicated.
I'm open to any questions you may have.
Council members, any questions for Mr.
Davis, Mr.
Meredith?
Uh, my question is just how many acres are gonna be,
uh, utilized for the fire station.
So if, if you look, uh, you know, once they get designed there's much more
property here than is needed for the initial,
but we wanted to carve enough out to, as the city grows,
if, if, you know, fire department needed a new ladder truck bay like we're
doing out in Greenbrier, that there's room to expand,
so.
Uh, the typical initial is 2 to 3, maybe 5 acres at most.
Uh, if you look here, there's just under 10 acres of additional property
for the city to use.
Thank you, sir.
You're welcome.
Any other questions for Mr.
Davis?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis.
Thank you, council members.
This brings us to 20 new items, uh, business items for consideration or
action.
Are there any these items will be approved in one motion unless any member
of the council wishes to remove an item for discussion.
The reading of each item will be waived unless a council member requests
otherwise.
Are there any items anyone wishes to hold separately,
Mr.
Meredith?
I M.
That that's all.
OK.
And Ms.
Watkins, A, B, C.
I P Q S S or X?
S as in Sam.
OK, item A.
B, C.
Aye.
I P Q.
And S as in Sam, and the chair moves for consolidation and approval.
Of items 20.
2 H 20 J.
20 J, K, and L, 20 N and O.
20 R, 20T, and 20 U.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed.
Those items are approved.
We will now move on to 28.
2A is the resolution authorizing travel expenses.
Is there a motion?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Uh, is there a discussion?
Council members, any questions?
Yes, Ms.
Smith, did you get a chance to send me the the update of this for this?
Prior to the approval, not for for this, it's,
it's in.
No, I did not realize that you wanted them for every session.
OK, uh, every session going forward.
OK, I will send those to you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate aye.
Any opposed?
The motion carries.
20B is an ordinance amending budget ordinance number 25-744 by changing
appropriate funding for various departments and funds.
Is there a motion to approve motion for Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Questions or comments for discussion.
Ms.
Watkins, you held this.
Do you have?
I did.
I want her to explain for the listening public.
So this, this item has been donated.
So we have a, um, we have a, a fire pole that,
um, that should, so this is for a budgeted item,
I'm sorry, not a donation, budgeted item that increases,
um, a transfer to our 1990 Capital projects fund from.
Um, from our fire and rescue department, so that that contract and everything
will be executed within the capital projects funds,
um, along with the, with the remainder of things around it,
and so this is literally just moving money from,
from the general fund where we initially established that to the capital
projects fund so that the money can be properly expended according to the
contract.
Thank you.
Any other comments or questions?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
20C is a resolution authorizing the mayor to take a portion of the proceeds
of certain future borrowing is to reimburse the 2014 Capital Improvement
Fund of the city for expenditures incurred prior to borrowing issuance.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Um, Miss, uh, Ms.
Smith, can you help us understand what we're doing here?
Um, good evening, Penny Smith, director of finance.
So this is, um, you've seen these types of resolutions come before you.

[00:55:02]
Um, uh, it is a tool that we use in order to,
um, in order to right size any borrowing that we do moving forward as we
go forward.
So, so there's been a a TI that has been set in place,
um, along with a 1% lodging tax that has been set in place to fund the,
the Von Braun Civic Center expansion.
And um and so there will be borrowings up to $260 million obviously that
is an that is a max amount um that is not uh the actual borrowings themselves
there will be multiple series of borrowings as we move through this three
year project.
And um and so setting that in place, there are a number of things that are
starting to occur and happen um and as we move across that we want to be
able to capture that into the borrowings right now the first borrowings
set maybe for spring February, March time frame we're not sure of the size
um or scope of that borrowing as of yet.
Any discussion?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter an agreement between the
city of Huntsville and Three Notch Group Inc.
for engineering design services for Alabama Highway 53 and Douglas Road
Intersection Improvements Project number 71-26-SP56.
Is there a motion to approve?
Move to approve motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair, Ms.
Martin.
Yes, good evening.
Kathy Martin, director of City engineering.
So this is a design contract with Three Notch Group.
It's for intersection improvements at the Alabama Highway 53 and Douglas
Road.
And what we're doing is adding a right turn lane at Douglas Road to minimize
congestion in the area.
So this is a lump sum design contract amount of $45,090.
Thank you.
Questions or comments?
Do you know when this construction is gonna start on this road?
We would hope, uh, by spring of next year we've got to go through LDOC permitting
process.
OK, thank you, Ms.
Martin.
Yes ma'am.
Any other questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate.
I oppose.
The motion carries.
20M is a resolution authorizing the city attorney to settle the personal
injury claim of Alicia Smith.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Um, Mr.
Riley, would it be appropriate for us to discuss this,
or should we go into another executive session?
We should, if we want to discuss it, we need to go into the executive session.
Council members, is there a motion for executive session?
Motion to go into executive session.
Second, I'll, uh, uh, Mr.
Meredith, how do you vote?
To go into executive session, Mr.
Kling, how do you vote?
Bill, Mr.
Clean, you know, I'm thinking, come back to me,
would you?
I'll go ahead and vote on Mr.
Little, Mr.
Ms.
Watkins, I, I'm the chair votes.
I, uh, we will be going into executive, uh,
we will now convene for executive session.
Madam President, yes sir.
Uh, I guess a personal contact, uh, comment I would have on this.
It seems like something like this, an individual council member can consult
with the city attorney before the meeting,
but I'll.
Went along with it as a courtesy.
We will now convene for suspend the public meeting and we will go into executive
session.
We hope to return.
I would think this should not take longer than 10 minutes or so.
I.
Convene the public meeting.
Motion from Mr.
Kling from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate motion.
The meeting is now convened.
We have a motion on the floor to approve item 20M.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.

[01:00:01]
The motion motion carries.
20% is a resolution authorizing the mayor to submit a grant application
to the Federal Transit Authority Administration FTA for the FY 27 formula
grant.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Kling.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Any discussion, conversation, questions?
It is, yeah, uh, is there going to be public input on how all this money
gets used when you get further down the line,
Ms.
Bryant.
Yes, Keisha Bryant, director of parking and public transit.
So these are our annual dollars that are appropriated from FTA and so we
will use them for our operations costs, um,
which are covered by these federal dollars at a 50% rate,
and then we'll also use them for capital costs at a rate of.
80% for the federal dollars and so we will not have any public hearings.
We are just continuing our operations.
There's nothing new that's going on with these dollars.
It's just so that we can access and allocate the dollars that the federal
government has allocated to us.
Any other questions?
Ms.
Watkins, well, no, Mr.
Clean jumped in before I could ask a question,
even though I held the item, but thank you,
Ms.
Rich.
Read your mind.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
No, I, I've got something else.
Let's finish this off, and then I'll, OK,
all in favor, please indicate I opposed.
The motion carries.
If I can interrupt, just for the record, Mr.
Riley, could you for.
Um, compliance with the Opens the Meeting Act give the reason for the last,
uh, need for executive session.
Yes, and I apologize for failing to do that.
I kind of got caught off surprise there, but yes,
uh, once again I am an attorney in the, in the,
uh.
Uh, license to practice in Alabama and in my judgment this falls within
the open litigation and discussing with your attorney those litigation matters
that need to be done in confidence so it does apply to one of the,
the, uh, the exceptions in the Open Meeting Act that allows for executive
session for the record, could you give the,
the site citation?
Citation of the code.
Just for the record.
It's uh 3625A-7A3.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
Um, 2020Q is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into facility use
agreement between the city of Huntsville and Fox Tross Company LLC.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Council members John Hamilton, city administrator,
so, uh, council members, the, the item before you is,
uh, our standard facility use agreement, uh,
that you see each year for the fair carnival event that occurs down at John
Hunt Park.
Uh, this, uh, event is scheduled from September 24th to the 27th.
Any questions for Mr.
Hamilton?
Thank you, Ms.
Hamilton.
That's what I wanted to know.
What was the Rocky City Fair?
Thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed.
The motion carries.
And finally, 2020S is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a
memorandum of understanding between the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the Huntsville City Board of Education, and the City of Huntsville Public
Police Department to formally establish the Tennessee Valley Threat Assessment
and threat management team.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Chief Giles, can you share with us, uh, the action being requested here?
Yes, ma'am.
This is uh MOU with the FBI in respects to,
um, basically just violent acts initially.
When law enforcement traditionally are dealing with this,
we deal with this after the fact.
In other words, once the incident had already occurred,
what they discovered back in 2015 through a symposium was the best way to
tackle this on a multidisciplinary team was to do threat assessment and
then threat management.
So what they do, they were asking us to be a host agency,
the FBI, and we are going to collaborate with the schools,
city schools, because that's where we're obviously the concern is throughout
the neighborhood, but especially with the schools.
And at this point in time we can help identify threats ahead of time and
then, but once we get through that, we'll be able to partner with other
local resources such as mental health to provide resources for the individual
and this can go outside the schools as well.
In other words, it can go in a normal business world as well.
Any questions for Chief Giles, Ms.
Watkins?
Um, Chief Giles, will this assessment take place in one of the schools?
Not necessarily.

[01:05:00]
It's gonna depend on the circumstances.
When we set up a multidisciplinary team, it'll,
it'll bring us all together, uh, within that group.
And we'll discuss it.
It's not knowing which cases we'll be dealing with at the time.
It's hard to say, but we will be pulling the schools in.
So like an exercise, yeah, they, they'll be involved if it involves a student,
they would definitely be involved.
OK, thank you.
Any other comments or questions?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
We have no new business that concludes our business before us this evening.
We have no new business items for introduction.
The next item on our agenda is second roster public comments.
We have several signed up, so I would suggest that we take a 10 minute break
and we will reconvene at 7:18.
Alright, we will call the meeting back to order.
So we are now at 2nd roster public comments.
This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons wishing to address the
council on matters relating to city business,
whether or not such items are on the meeting agenda.
Those wishing to comment have signed up in advance.
Um, when called, approach the microphone,
state your name, home address, and city residence,
and I will also call the person following so that you can be ready to come
up.
We'll move this process along.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers shall refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and from making comments regarding the good name and character
of any individual.
The first person signed up to speak is Christopher Bulware,
who will be followed by Maggie Minsk.
Um, Mr.
Boulware.
We'll just come right here, and you will each have 3 minutes.
Good evening, City Council.
I am an Alabama native who graduated high school and college here.
Name and address for the record, please.
Christopher Bulware, 119 Rebecca Pines Drive,
Madison, Alabama.
Thank you.
I've lived in 5 states across this country.
I've seen enough to know that Huntsville is a special place and one worth
preserving.
That's why I'm here to address what I consider a travesty against American
freedoms AI powered automated license plate readers with flock safety as
the infamous market leader marketed to eliminate crime.
This technology is dragnet surveillance, paving the road to a surveillance
state.
Alabama now ranks 6th nationally in these cameras per capita.
Flock claims that it makes communities safer,
but a leaked internal tool called OS Investigate showed these systems can
correlate plate scans with data broker information.
Social Security numbers, phone numbers, relatives performing what Flock
itself calls a one command background check.
Another tool, convoy analysis, flags vehicles traveling together,
letting police monitor who regularly gathers,
whether a criminal ring or simply neighbors,
coworkers, or protesters.
With 20 billion scans per month, you'd assume that Flock protects the data,
and that's wrong.
Researchers gained root access to a camera in under 30 seconds with a ladder.
Credentials transmit in clear text.
And the cameras violate 8 of 10 industry internet security standards.
Flock doesn't even require multi-factor authentication,
and Flock logins have been found for sale on Russian,
uh, cybercrime forums, and the public is responding.
At least 54 cities have canceled their flock contracts and 26 alone,
including the LAPD, after an audit showed a 1 in 3 chance of pulling over
an innocent person.
The opposition is bipartisan.
Uh, Governor DeSantis recently said that the cameras are out of control.
Congressman, uh, Burchett from Tennessee introduced HR 9800 to cut federal
funding.
And make no, uh, mistake, protecting Americans from AI overreach and mass
surveillance has become one of the biggest issues voters use as their North
Star at the ballot box for Huntsville.
This is a national security issue.
We are one of the largest defense hubs in the nation,
and foreign adversaries can buy stolen login credentials for a few $100
map the vehicles of our defense contractors,
trace them home, and profile cleared personnel for blackmail in minutes
with no warrant.
Our founders warned us.
James Madison said there are more instances of the abridgment of the freedom
of people by gradual and silent encroachments by those in power than by
violent and sudden usurpations, and Benjamin Franklin said those who would
give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserve
neither liberty or safety.
I asked his council to cancel Flock's contract and pass a local ordinance

[01:10:02]
requiring warrants for any mass surveillance data.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Next person to speak is Maggie Min Minsk.
Following Ms.
Minsk, we will hear from Jerry Burnett.
Hi, my name is Maggie Minsk, and I live in Madison,
um, but I'm also a business owner, uh, in Huntsville's District 5.
Um, I am a single mother and business owner,
and I am also concerned about flock safety,
um, which I believe is rather Orwellian, uh,
in speech and might be more aptly named flock surveillance.
I, I am truly concerned.
Uh, the cameras take videos, essentially a warrantless search of everyone
in Hunts, uh, Huntsville, Madison, Decatur,
etc.
all have contracts with flock.
Um, Huntsville did it first.
Madison got theirs, um, not too long ago for 86,000.
Uh, the North Alabama Multi-agency Crime Center uses license plate readers,
cameras, gunshot detection, which is microphones,
and also intelligence AI.
Um, however, statistically, it seems like a study of flat cameras showed
that ALPRs, um, are wrong 71% of the time,
leaving us to pay for a lawyer, take off work,
and prove in court that it wasn't us.
Um, so there's a concern about innocent until proven guilty,
and once the data exists about all Huntsville citizens,
it becomes a cybersecurity target.
Uh, in January, Flock confirmed a security incident involving its Condor
cameras that exposed live camera feeds and archival footage and allowed
video to be deleted.
Researchers have also demonstrated vulnerabilities in ALPR technology that
exposed these surveillance systems to unauthorized access.
Anything connected to a network is potentially vulnerable.
Two days ago, uh, August 25th, Pflugerville,
Texas unanimously voted to end its flock contract after it was revealed
that 1.6 million searches had been conducted by 459 outside organizations
within a six month period.
This week, a US Senate Judiciary Subcommittee opened a formal investigation
into FL's data collection, access, and sharing practices.
Fox's own materials acknowledged that its LPR system is connected across
49 states, while the ALC ACLU has raised concern about the creation of a
nationwide surveillance infrastructure.
As a mental health professional, I'm concerned about the privacy and safety
of clients or any vulnerable marginalized residents.
How do we protect those seeking refuge from domestic violence,
stalking, and other dangerous situations?
Anyone can gain access and reconstruct where a client,
a client lives or a police officer, judge.
City council member track the movements of someone with national top secret
clearance and what happens when Huntsville's military intelligence,
aerospace and and defense activity becomes part of a searchable hackable
surveillance database.
The overall infrastructure also has an environmental cost yet to be ascertained.
Um, finally, taxpayer, thank you very much,
Ms.
Minsk.
Your time is up.
Thank you for joining us tonight.
We'll now hear from Jerry Burnett.
Mr.
Burnett will be followed by Austin Jones.
Uh, Jerry, Jerry Burnett, 2405 Greenhill Drive,
uh, to the mayor, the president, and the rest of the council,
good evening.
Thank you for allowing me to speak.
I'm here because I have an issue with my next door neighbor who uh doesn't
seem to care to keep their property up.
And I've had to call uh my councilwoman uh several times about the trash
and debris that they leave around the house they don't care that.
Bring the trash can in, uh, they drop trash trash on the ground.
They don't, they'll just walk right over it.
They don't mind drinking a soda.
Throw the can out the door.
And uh from time to time I've had to pick trash up that's coming over into
my yard after it laid out for several days and the wind blow it into the
yard and I told my wife I said, well, maybe we can put up with it until
we can find to relocate.
But then they got a cat, the cat that continues to,
to use my property for its bathroom.
So I, so I spent a lot of money to make my backyard cat catproof.

[01:15:04]
Well then the cats start going in the front to use it,
you know, and it's creating flies and other insects,
and I've called the animal control, and they,
they come by a couple of times.
And once I come out to talk to them because I wanted to make sure you get
your, get them to clean their cat litter out my yard.
And of course he told me, he said, uh, why don't you go back in the house,
sir?
I got this.
But in the meantime, cats started doing this thing,
so.
I'm, I don't like picking up cat litter, but that's why I don't have a cat.
And I think if the owner should be responsible for their own cats and uh
as it turned out the um animal control said that uh.
If you get a picture of it, uh, and, and,
uh, go to the city magistrate and then maybe you can get some,
uh, satisfaction from that.
So we'll give that a try.
I put video up and I capture the cat out on my property and then we go to
the city magistrate and she looks at it and she says,
well, the animal control said the cat is yellow.
This is a great cat.
I said, Well, I don't know where yellow cat come from.
Then she said, Well, you gotta do it all over again.
So it looked like I'm getting the runaround.
And in the meantime, I've got a cat problem.
Uh, that's my issue.
I wonder what is there any solution.
Thank, thank you, sir.
Um, we can certainly get, uh, someone to meet Miss,
Ms.
Watkins will meet with you afterwards to discuss it.
Thank you very much.
We'll next hear from Austin Jones, who will be followed by Coden Hel uh
Caden Helbling.
Hi there.
I'm Austin Jones.
Uh, address on the sheet and I'm out in Owen's Crossroads.
I'm a 21 year Army vet and a member of the Democratic Socialists of America
and I'm running for Madison County School Board District 3.
I'm here to talk about safety.
The top three causes of death for children,
according to a New England Journal of Medicine study published May 13,
2026, are firearms, motor vehicles, and poison.
Followed closely by cancer which is on the rise among children,
but there is something more insidious not captured by this study poverty
and poverty has lifelong effects on our children,
our future.
The poverty rate for children in Madison County is 42.5%. That means just
about every other child you meet around is living in poverty in the richest
country in the history of the world.
This doesn't count the number of kids that are borderline impoverished,
which I would bet puts that number well over 50%.
What are we doing?
What's going on?
I constantly hear from the Republicans how important and how much they care
for kids.
Do you really think the Epstein class sitting in office care?
My dad always said the proof is in the pudding.
Well, the children ain't even got no pudding to eat.
And what they do eat, 60% of it is processed.
Why are we living in a real life Hunger Games?
That book is a warning, not a goal, on how society is supposed to run.
The parents of these children are working their tails off overtime,
2 and 3 jobs with what to show for it.
On top of the Epstein class not paying people,
they steal $50 billion a year in wages.
So what are we doing?
What's going on?
Freedom starts with education, but it sure is hard to study when you're
hungry and your parents can't cook because they're at work.
Freedom starts with education all the power to all the people free Palestine,
solidarity forever.
Thank you, Mr.
Jones.
We'll hear now from Kayden Helbling.
Mr.
Helbling will be followed by Gerald Vines.
I'm Kayden Helbling from Huntsville.
My address is on the sheet.
Um, I wanted to follow up with the city council and make others in Huntsville
aware of the status of my records request,
uh, surrounding the flock audit logs, uh,
with the city.
Uh, I spent 8 months, uh, requesting those audit logs,
um, that the city is legally required to have for oversight that they're
capable of providing electronically and have been provided by Blount County
in Alabama, uh, unredacted for the public to review.
Um, but for whatever reason, uh, the city has determined that they are not
legally compelled to provide them.
Um, after my last update at city council,
uh, during the last, uh, city council meeting,

[01:20:01]
uh, I stayed after to speak with council president,
uh, Robinson about why Blunt County, um, under the same rules and regulations
as, uh, Huntsville was able to provide the same documents I was asking for,
and she told me that it is because Huntsville is bigger and has more lawyers.
Um, that is something that I think those living in District 3,
should keep in mind during the runoff election on September 22nd.
Additionally, uh, City Attorney Trey Riley told me that I will have to go
to court if I want these audits and that I should,
and should I be successful, that I will be putting children in danger.
One more thing that I would like to highlight because there is news of Flock,
uh, implementing some new safety guidelines,
uh, the city's official stance is as follows.
The city rejects the premise that Flock Safety's guidance documents established
the city's legal obligations under Alabama law.
Flock Safety is a private software vendor.
It's publications, user manuals, customer guidance documents,
and recommended practices are not statutes,
judicial decisions, or opinions of the Alabama Attorney general.
They possess no president and no presidential value and cannot define,
expand or restrict the city's legal obligations under Alabama's Public Records
Act or any Alabama case law that has endeavored to interpret the same,
nor can they be substituted for the statutory analysis required under Alabama
law.
Effectively, the city can do whatever it chooses regardless of what Flock
recommends or suggests, uh, that the users do.
So if you hear anything about, um, you know,
Flock implementing new safety tools, take it with a massive heap of salt.
The city does not have to follow it.
Uh, the systems have never been up for public vote,
have no means of public oversight, and it appears that rather than listening
to those living in Huntsville and change those things,
the city is looking at other vendors with all the same problems.
Let's do better.
Thank you.
We'll now hear from Gerald Vines, who will be followed by Molly Cluck.
Good evening, Gerald Vines, 165 Mid Park Drive,
Meridianville, Alabama.
Thank you.
Good evening, Mayor, Madam President, and council members.
Thank you for allowing me to share this vision for the Omega Psi Phi fraternity's
50th state meeting hosted here in the Rocket City October 2nd through the
4th.
I am the state marshal for this meeting.
We're excited to be in Huntsville for this meeting.
Represent and it it's represents more than,
more than just a gathering of men.
It is an opportunity to provide economic impact,
serve the Huntsville community, and invest in the next generation through
youth enrichment activities.
The economic impact we're expecting approximately 1000 members from across
the state of Alabama and beyond.
Our attendees will have an opportunity to experience the city's restaurants,
entertainment, and other destinations and support the local economy.
Uh, we're encouraging them to stay in our hotels and patronize the local
businesses.
The community impact.
However, our presence in the city of Huntsville is not just economic.
Service is the heart of Omega Psi Phi.
We are planning a community service project with,
uh, the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Huntsville on the Pulaski Pike to,
to, uh, set up their computer labs for them to.
Um, For the education opportunities, community programming,
and, and, and at the center, as you know,
access to technology is increasingly important for students pursuing education,
career opportunities, and, and, and, and digital skills.
We have a talent competition that will be held Friday night,
uh, October 2nd at the Marriott, and this competition will be,
will be hosted by our fraternity, and we have students from all over the
state competing in this competition.
Then we'll have a STEM competition that'll be held on Saturday at the um
Space camp operations center.
Now we have members, young kids from all over the state at the STEM companies
as well.
Our goal Is to ensure that when the members of Omega Psi Phi leave Huntsville,
we leave behind something tangible that continues to benefit the community.
We welcome the city of Huntsville to partner with us in making this a memorable
and impactful weekend for our members, our young people,
and the entire Huntsville community.
As a part of this weekend's activities, our public meeting will be held
on Friday, October 7th at 7 p.m. at the Huntsville Marriott.
We will be honored to have representatives from the cities of Huntsville
to join us, bringing greetings and welcoming our visitors to the to our
great city.
Your presence and help would help demonstrate the strong partnership between
the city of Huntsville and the Alabama statewide Organization of Omega Psi
Phi fraternity as we come together around economic opportunity,
service, and the arts and development of our youth.
We look forward to welcoming you to this and the city to our Alabama statewide
organization meeting of Omega Psi Phi on October 2nd through the 4th.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Vines.
We'll now hear from Molly Cluck who will be followed by Luis Bal Balderrama.

[01:25:06]
My name is Molly Cluck.
My address is correct on the form, and I'm a resident of Huntsville.
Thank you.
Good evening everyone.
I'm here tonight to demand rejection of the expansion of automatic license
plate reader surveillance.
This is often presented as a simple public safety tool,
but that description leaves out the most important question what happens
to the relationship between citizens and government when the government
is allowed to collect information on everyone all the time without suspicion
of wrongdoing?
ALPRs collect license plates, locations, and time stamps from everyone who
happens to drive past a camera.
That means the government can build a searchable record of where ordinary
people have been, even when those people are not suspected of committing
any crime.
That is an inversion of a basic principle of a free society.
We are being asked to accept a system where everyone is treated as a potential
future suspect.
The government collects first and justifies the search later.
Instead of public power being limited and accountable,
ordinary people are made permanently available for inspection.
Citizens should not have to live under constant surveillance so that someday
the government might decide their past movements are worth investigating.
And surveillance does not fall equally on everyone.
People who work irregular hours, rely on older vehicles,
travel across jurisdictions, organize with neighbors,
attend protests, visit clinics, or move through heavily monitored areas
are more likely to be recorded and scrutinized.
A system that collects everyone's movements becomes a system that disciplines
the people with the least power to challenge it.
And once that infrastructure exists, the question is no longer simply whether
we trust today's police department.
It is whether we trust every future administration,
every future employee with access, every agency this data may be shared
with, and every future expansion of this technology.
Power that can be abused finds someone willing to abuse it.
We also need to ask whether the evidence justifies the cost.
A quasi randomized study found an increase in vehicle recoveries but no
increase in arrests and little clear evidence of general crime prevention
benefits.
Early experimental research into Northern Virginia jurisdictions found no
statistically significant reduction in general crime,
auto-related crime, auto theft, or theft from autos associated with ALPR
patrols.
Public resources should be directed towards measures that strengthen people's
security directly.
Reliable emergency response, housing stability,
mental health services, safe transportation,
and the conditions that allow people to live with dignity,
a technology that expands the state's power to watch everyone should not
take priority over investments that improve people's lives.
A safe society does not require turning the entire public into a database
just in case someone might be useful to an investigation later.
The people of this community are not raw material for an ever growing surveillance
system.
Safety and freedom are not opposites.
No one here should accept a false choice between protecting our community
and protecting our civil liberties.
I urge this council to reject the expansion of ALPR surveillance and to
refuse to build a system of mass suspicionless monitoring in our community.
Thank you.
We'll now hear from Luis Valderrama who will be followed by Joyce Macklin.
Is Mr.
Balderrama here?
Good evening Mayor and council.
So I accidentally name and address, uh, so Louis Baldroma,
1580 John Wesley Way.
Thank you.
So I thought that was a sign-in sheet, so I accidentally signed up to speak.
So while I'm here, um, I'd like to introduce myself again.
Louis Baldrama.
I am the chair for the city of Huntsville's Community Development Citizen
Advisory Council, and while I'm here, I would like to thank Community Development
for everything it does and I would like to cordially invite everyone on
council.
We've already had Mayor Battle come speak to us to join us in any one of
our meetings, so that's a standing invitation for whenever we get a chance.
Um, one thing we have been talking about a lot during the CAC is housing
affordability here in the city of Huntsville.
Um, as a North Alabama native, I've gotten to see the prices of housing
skyrocket in my short life that I have been alive.
Um, a lot of our residents who grew up here are starting to feel the impact
of that.
So down payments are starting to become incredibly high,
and we who grew up here and have lived here our whole lives are struggling
to be able to afford some of those.
So we ask that if council could seek some solutions to help address some
of these issues, that'd be greatly appreciated.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you for being with us and for serving on the advisory council.
We'll now hear from Joyce Macklin, who will be followed by Edward,
uh, Poniatowski Junior.
Miss Macklin She's not here?
We will then go on to Mr.
Potowski.
And who will be followed by Christopher, uh,

[01:30:02]
Bulware.
OK.
Edward Pontiatowski, 821 Mira Vista Drive,
uh, I'm just here to just as a general citizen provide my,
um.
Uh, my discrepancy with the flock camera industry as of right now,
I don't think that's a good direction for the city of Huntsville to move
forward, and I just wanted to provide my,
uh, general comment on that.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
We'll now hear from Christopher Boulware,
who will be followed by Shaylon Moody.
I signed up the phone and then OK, very good.
Thank you.
Uh, Shaylon, Shaylyn Moody, and then Doctor Angela Somerset.
Hi Thank you, Mayor and council members for hearing me out on an opportunity
to raise the level of safety name and address,
please, for the record.
Yes, my name is Shalene Mody.
Uh, address is correct on the sheet and your city of residence,
Huntsville, Alabama.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, ma'am.
So thank you for hearing me out on something uh of an opportunity to raise
the safety awareness level across the city.
Um, I am, I've been a resident, uh, resident of Huntsville since 2018.
Yes, I am another engineer in town.
I'm also a civic engagement, uh, academy alum and related to,
uh, safety.
I'm also a former Boy Scout, former volunteer firefighter,
and also went through the, uh, training classes for the community emergency
response team through Madison County SERT.
In a growing city like ours, we have an opportunity to address concerns
of many new residents who may not know what to expect when they call 911
or how best to interact with first responders.
Additionally, some, some just lack confidence or competence to assess someone
in medical distress, which may cause the situation to worsen.
Metrics of growing cities often show safety and harm prevention efforts
may fall short and uh unless you have a critical mass of trained professionals
or bystanders just generally spread across the city.
What I propose then Is a pilot project for a citizen safety and preparedness
academy which could slot right in next to the Citizens Police Academy and
the citizens or the civic engagement academy.
The end goal would be to increase survivability rates of victims reported
on 911 calls.
Related to emergency medical distress through raising the overall safety
consciousness of our residents, the situations I have in mind are often
time critical, such as heart attack, stroke,
blunt trauma, mental illness episodes, seizures,
heat stroke, excessive bleeding, and similar.
Having someone who practices clear communication and risk assessment in
dynamic situations are some of the best people to have in an emergency.
Their confidence and calmness is a safety multiplier.
A pilot program of about 30 participants seems to be a sizable enough cohort
which can train in how to speak and interact with the emergency call center
personnel and first responders, trained in CPR and AD and recognizing signs
of various medical conditions.
Additionally, fire extinguisher use and fire escape planning would be helpful.
After sessions conclude, we can check in quarterly with the participants
and the newly safe, uh, safely aware to see what kind of effect they have
had, uh, in the community and continue the program pending the results.
Raising the average level of safety consciousness across the city may show
up in different ways and increasing the survival rates.
Dispatchers and first responders having an easier time to get through an
incident.
Participants may take up careers in emergency services,
and we may see an uptick of residents getting formal CPR and first aid training.
It might even cause some old boys to formally designate a 911 caller for
a pickup game of football.
Thank you, sir.
We appreciate you being here.
We'll now hear from Doctor Angela Somerset,
who will be followed by, um, Tyler Gottney.
All right, good evening, council.
My name is Doctor Angela Somerset, and I reside at 9 Chalkstone Street.
Thank you, sir, or ma'am.
This evening I would like to talk about a double standard.
I would also like to talk about the importance of financial responsibility.
The same way that our city requires us to be responsible financially.
I would like to also see that our utility company is responsible.
Right now, young people are facing a huge responsibility as well as a pressure

[01:35:06]
in regards to affording homes, medical care.
But our city sits uniquely under an umbrella for the city of Huntsville.
Huntsville Utility sits under that umbrella as well as Huntsville Hospital
under the healthcare authority.
Many of you may not know that if you face problems in paying your utility
bill and now you are unable to pay your medical bill,
that the hospital can place a lien against you.
You could lose everything and that's why we are seeing such a rise in homelessness,
but one of the most important things that I am still concerned about is
that $4 million deficit, and we keep brushing past it and I will bring it
up every time, whether it be here or on social media because I think as
we all have seen now social media is a very powerful force.
The one concern I'm also going to bring up is we have a city administrator.
I'd like to see that in your budgets.
Ms.
Penny Smith, I'd like an answer.
Councilpersons, I'd like an answer, and this is why our city is changing.
Young people are looking for answers.
We're looking for responsiveness.
This past week, one of my neighbors, ironically an attorney,
asked me to look at another, uh, citizen's bill of $1,601.
It took me 3 days to get my mind around that before I made a few calls to
Huntsville utilities and they corrected that person's bill by $591 and change.
It's very rare that you see the doctor help the attorney,
but this was the case.
There is too much in regards to misreads from a utility company that is
still not representing accountability and transparency as well as getting
those books and just like this young man was saying with the flock cameras,
etc.
We, we have open record laws.
And what you don't realize is that these young people,
if they're not getting the answers here, they will take this to social media
and the world will see it.
Thank you.
Thank you, Doctor Somerset.
We'll now hear from Tyler Gartney, who will be followed by Dana Ho Holiday
Holyfield.
Hi, I am, uh, Tyler Gotney, uh, Huntsville District 5.
My address is on the sheet.
I'm here to, um.
Speak out up against Flock.
I know the little worm that's, uh, worming its way through your head.
Flock.
You have no reasonable expectation of privacy in public and it's collecting
public data.
But my argument hinges on a recent Supreme Court ruling in June of this
year, Chatter v.
United States.
The Supreme Court.
Uh, pontificated the stance that individuals have a reasonable expectation
of privacy in the whole of their movements,
and Flock is fundamentally tracking those movements.
It further reasons against surveillance technology offering newfound tracking
capacity, technology that runs against everyone,
not just those under investigation, and technology that can travel back
in time.
The court's reasoning provided that location history is protected under
the Fourth Amendment as follows.
Location history provides an even more fine-tuned picture of a person's
movement.
Location history allows police to reconstruct retrospectively and with no
real effort people's comings and goings in any area,
enabling tireless and absolute surveillance of any number of people in any
number of places.
Location history implicates personal privacy interests because location
history is the individual's own.
In that way, location history resembles other private materials.
That even if stored on a private company's servers,
a user reasonably expects to be shielded from the inquisitive eyes of the
government.
The court also referenced prior landmark rulings on privacy such as Carpenter
v.
Carpenter v.
United States, where it ruled that acquisitions of a phone CSLI data constitutes
a protected Fourth Amendment search.
In United States v.
Jones, it ruled that attaching a GPS device to a vehicle and then using
the device to monitor the vehicle's movements constitutes 1/4 Amendment
search.
In United States via DR.
They read, uh, Fourth Amendment is designed to place obstacles in the way
of two permeating police surveillance.
How then can you argue in good faith that a mass surveillance network such
as ALPR technology, where the movements of people are easily discoverable
and a tireless and absolute surveillance network allows parallel reconstruction
of for anything that they want to charge a person is not Fourth Amendment
private protected domain.
Um, the other argument commonly is that you have nothing to hide if you
have, you have nothing to fear if you have nothing to hide,
but it indicates that the speaker fundamentally demands we justify our desire
for governmental boundaries.
It is un-America and I un-American, and I shouldn't have to explain to my

[01:40:03]
thick-headed politicians why I'm glad I don't live in a surveillance state
like China or Russia.
The nothing to hide argument uses sound circular reasoning to present a
false dichotomy to people.
And another common argument is that the national movement,
thank you, sir, that's the end of your time.
Well, now our last speaker will be Dana Holiday Holyfield.
Thank you.
My name is Dana Holiday Hollifield.
I live at 10,010 Strong Drive, Southeast Huntsville,
and my mother-in-law, I'm here with, uh, to represent her as well.
She lives at 4301 Holmes Avenue Northwest.
So, um, I know that Tara Bailey has spoken to several of y'all about.
About, uh, removing the sales tax on hearing aids.
Um, the state did that back in 2024 and Madison City followed suit,
and I don't think a lot of people realized that,
you know, that that is taxed and it's a significant amount.
It's 4.5% and I went with my mother-in-law to get her hearing aids,
and that was hundreds of dollars extra dollars that she is on a budget.
We're talking about an 83 year old woman who every dollar counts,
and that 4.5% on those expensive hearing aids is,
you know, some for some people it may be the matter of groceries or getting
my medication.
So um when they don't have their hearing aids as a nurse I see what that
means we're talking about social isolation people feeling like they're left
out of the conversation that they can't interact it can lead to depression
we're talking about people just feeling like,
you know, they're old, you know, and going through all these things and
then now they can't even participate in.
Conversations um so I feel like we need to follow suit and provide a resolution
to remove that sales tax is not that much.
I don't think it's gonna impact the budget that much to remove that,
but it could really mean a lot to some of our senior citizens,
um, and making a difference in their lives so I would really like for y'all
to.
Consider bringing a resolution forth so that we can remove that sale tax
and follow suit with what the state has done,
what Madison City's done.
We need to go ahead and get this done.
I know, um, several of you have spoken with Tara Bailey and myself.
Please, let's consider getting that done.
I appreciate y'all's time and I always appreciate your service.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ms.
Holyfield.
That's our final speaker and concludes, um,
all the items on our agenda.
Is there a motion to adjourn?
A motion from, uh, Mr.
Little, and we are adjourned.
It is 7:54 p.m.
