[00:00:45]
Welcome everyone.
This meeting of the Huntsville City Council is called together.
It is Friday, September 18, 2026.
It is 11:00 p.m.
We are met in the chambers of the Huntsville City Council in Huntsville,
Alabama.
This is a work session of the city council.
No action will be taken and items will be considered at the September 24th
regular council meeting.
Madam President, point of order, I just want to,
for the record, uh, dissent and object to this unilateral alteration.
And downgrading of a special session into a non-voting work session.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
Your, uh, objection is noted.
We'll move forward with the agenda.
Um, uh, following introductory comments by the mayor,
we'll have presentation of the fiscal year 2027 budget,
followed by a presentation from the administration on,
uh, changes to the organization of the staff.
Uh, and then we will hear regarding a change in classification and salary
plan ordinance followed finally by presentations of the fiscal year 2027-2014
capital improvement plan and the fiscal year 2027 update to the 1990 capital
plan.
Mayor Battle, we'll begin with your comments.
Thank you, uh, Madam President, and thank you,
counsel.
Um, this is.
Uh, always an interesting time.
I was kind of reflecting on it sitting up here.
It's my 23rd time to go through a budget,
uh, for the city of Huntsville, and over those 23 years,
uh, we started off with budgets of, uh, about $35 million and today we're
at, um, we're at, uh, a third of a billion dollars,
$330 million as a budget, uh, and as we've done that we've seen a growth
in our community, we've seen a growth in.
Where we are, we have never had a budget where we have been able to fulfill
everyone's, uh, uh, everyone's what, what everyone asked for.
Uh, each year we have this much resources and we have this much wants in
our community, and they're good wants.
Uh, the wants out there are projects that we look at each,
each and every year.
They're projects that you, you wish you could,
uh, you could afford, but you can't, and we have to come in with a balanced
budget.
Uh, by law we are required to come in with a balanced budget,
and, um, that's what we will present to you today.
Um, there's gonna be a lot on the plate today.
Uh, it's, it's anticipated that just there's,
there's a lot to look at, uh, everything from our revenue sides and where
we are in revenue and, uh, Ms.
Smith go through that with you, uh, to our expenses,
uh, to our payroll.
We have a 2% cola worked in this.
Uh, we also have some, uh, increases in some areas that we feel like it's
very important to increase so that we can,
um, stay competitive and.
In that job market out there, uh, as, as we try to make sure that we have
uh proper public safety, uh, we have outside agencies who came in and they're,
you know, we have definitely not met the needs of all the outside agencies.
Uh, we had, uh, agency after agency, uh, requests we had more agencies requests
this year, I think, than we've ever had.
And uh and we tried to be very uh judicious as we went through to make sure
that we um allocated that money that was there was about a 10% of our budget,
kind of like in your church, uh, 10% tithe 10% of that budget went to uh
outside agencies and uh those outside agencies are important agencies to
us, but there are many more that are just as important who,
uh, were not able to be funded this year.
Um, we're also, uh, you'll have the CAP plan,
the 2014 and the 1990 Capital plan.
This is something that's very unique that a lot of communities don't have,
uh, across Alabama, across the US, uh, we have two funds which are dedicated
to the growth of our community.
Uh, one fund, the 2014 Capital Plan, uh, some of y'all were here when we
passed that 2014 Capital Plan.
Uh, dedicated towards, uh, roads and economic development,
uh, the 1990 capital plan is dedicated towards internal facilities for the

[00:05:01]
city of Huntsville, uh, the, the kind of quality of life issues or the quality
of life facilities that you put up, uh, a lot of the Sandra Moon,
a lot of the, uh, pickleball courts, a lot of,
uh, a lot of the Shurney Center, uh, others like that were all put into,
uh, the 1990 capital plan.
And it gives us a source of funding so that we can fund the continued growth
of our city.
Um, You also have a reorgan here as, uh, as I've talked to each of you over
the last, uh, uh, last couple of months, uh,
Mr.
Davis is leaving the city and we're, we'll miss him,
uh, miss sorely miss him.
Uh, but out of that, uh, has come a good bit of talk about succession planning.
How do we set up our government so that we are not having a one person fail
safe, uh, that we have people who can back up other people who can back
up other people, and, uh, if, if something happens to somebody we can,
uh, fill that slot and we can keep moving forward and so the reorganization
is, uh, coming back to an idea.
That we, I honestly need to look very much at succession,
uh, and make sure that we have, uh, people in line and people in place.
When I start looking for people to put in place for some of that succession,
I look for number one internal, uh, because we have a great bench internally.
We have some great people, uh, work for the city of Huntsville,
and we wanna make sure that those, those folks are given the first shot.
If something, you know, if there's a place that we just don't have,
don't feel like we have the right person for it,
then we'll go external, we'll go, uh, you know,
with a nationwide search and, uh, interviews,
and after those interviews we may end up with somebody internal,
we may end up with somebody, uh, uh, from,
uh, from anywhere in the US, but we wanna get the best people because that's
what the citizens of Huntsville ask us for.
We're government is no better than the people that we have.
So, uh, I will say to you, uh, today.
That I thank you for your time and your patience with this.
This will take a little bit of time, but I think it's something that's very
important for our future to make sure that as we,
um, put together our budget and put together our financial plans for,
for the next year that we're ready for what the future brings us future
look.
Looks very, very bright.
Uh, the future looks good to us, uh, but we have to make sure that day in
and day out that we take care of the little things that we take care of
the little things, the big things get taken care of,
and, uh, our community will continue to grow,
continue to thrive, but continue to offer opportunity to people,
uh, opportunity for jobs, opportunity, uh,
to be part of a growing economy, and we wanna make sure that.
Every section of the city is part of that,
uh, growth and that opportunity.
So thank you.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
We'll now, uh, move on to the first item on a long agenda.
One B is a presentation of the proposed fiscal year 2027 budget by the administration
followed by increased discussion and input by city council with the mayor
and administration officials, and the presentation will be given by our,
um, CFO Ms.
Penny Smith.
I want to say good evening, but it's really,
um, good morning.
So, um, thank you.
I'm Penny Smith, the finance director here in the city and,
um, and I get to present this wonderful budget to you.
um, I'm very excited about it.
We're gonna get to delve into all the different facets of this budget,
and there are many to look at.
So, um, I, I appreciate your patience, uh,
with me as I go through the things today and also your questions and,
and comments as we move, move into that portion of this budget.
So, um, so I do wanna make a mention, I do wanna shout out to my absolutely
amazing staff.
We're all geeks in this and we love putting together this stuff,
but, um.
But they in particular, I wanna, uh, call out budget,
um, our budget manager Jennifer Hersey, grants manager Whitney Gentry,
who is actually going to present part of this today in addition to myself,
um, for outside agencies, and then Kim Thickbin who's put in a lot of work
as our payroll manager, um, on the different aspects of this budget.
So getting into the agenda a little bit and the mayor mentioned this as
he, as he talked, um, going through a lot of ground to cover and we will
start off with the budget creation and financial structure and then just
move deeper into the different, different aspects of the budget.
Mm.
So as the mayor mentioned, the budget is a fiscal plan or a policy document,
and it is required of us to present a balanced budget each year for,

[00:10:04]
for the general fund before the start of the next fiscal year.
As the finance department and the finance director,
we are a facilitator in this process.
We pull together a lot of different numbers and stack up a lot of different
things to make up the budget.
And there are many advisors and inputs from the different,
um, experts in the city, but the mayor makes all the final decisions.
This is his budget, and that is what I present to you this evening.
So we're gonna start with a little bit, a little primer about um physical
fund accounting and, and so that is where we'll land.
You've seen this before, but this is just kind of a reminder.
So the general fund is our largest fund in the city.
You can see all the revenue sources in the departments that are housed in
our general fund.
It has a lot going on in the different aspects.
The total budget is $360.6 million for the general fund.
It's where all the major activities occur for all our departments.
Um, besides the general fund housing these for for sources and uses,
the city is self-insured and so we have a life,
uh, health and life insurance fund.
It accounts for about $40 million in premium and,
um, and health expense that goes through through the city.
Um, in addition, we have an events donation fund,
um, that's called our revolving, uh, revolving fund.
And it just houses anytime people donate to the city and say,
I want this to go for this specific.
Um, item and people can donate.
They can take that off on their taxes.
We actually place it into this fund.
So things like Jazz in the Park, Kathy, um,
the, any other police programs and some other items are housed in this fund.
Special revenue funds are exactly kind of what the title alludes to,
so these account for very specific revenue sources that are tied to that
have legal constraints against the way that we spend them.
And, uh, so first off is, um, property tax funds.
We have two of those.
They are both 6.5 mL and represent.
Different aspects.
One is for the Huntsville City schools, and um it is for it's budgeted in
the amount of 41.7 million in property taxes this year and then 6.5 million
are restricted for capital or infrastructure of the city.
It's at 36.9 million.
The city has determined in its best interest to um to give a portion of
sales and use tax to our city school systems for their operating budget.
This year, um, that amount is going to be budgeted at $38.6 million for
furtherance of education.
The lodging tax funds, so we had 3 last year,
this year we have 4, because of the additional 1%.
I'm going to talk about that in a little bit later,
but all the revenue across the funds equals about $29.4 million.
We have 3, maybe 4 in the future, um, tax increment financing districts,
um, 3 of which right now in operation are 57,
and 9.
I'm gonna mention those a little bit later.
Um, TI 8 is under consideration and is yet to be approved,
so appropriately, it is actually not in this budget.
Um, total revenue, uh, projected for these 3 funds is 21 million.
Then we have our gas tax funds.
They are restricted for road, bridge, and repair and maintenance.
It can be used for street lighting and in this case,
a lot of it is.
Um, total revenue is forecasted at 8.8 million.
Um, certain, certain other funds, federal and state forfeiture funds are
restricted for public safety use.
Cemetery sales, oh, excuse me, corrections and court funds are also restricted
for their use in judicial, and then our cemetery sales and cares.
We actually had two last year.
We combined that to one, for efficiencies,
um, that was allowed by law and so, so that is,
that is in the care of our cemeteries spent in the care of that.
And then the last thing is our grants funds,
which includes CDBG HOM, CNI are directed by Community Development,
and then the FTA funds are directed by public and um by parking and public
transit department.
They both together annually produce around $5 million.
In addition, um, within that financial structure is our capital projects
funds, which you'll hear about them later,
both 1990 and the 2014, as well as other debt-funded projects.
So when we borrow, we put, we take those borrows for our transcripts and
we put those into a Specific fund that way when that borrowing is spent
for the projects that are allocated out to that um specific borrow then

[00:15:01]
we close that fund and that the way we we keep up with all of that um requirements
for our borrowings.
We also have two enterprise funds that will be presented tonight that are
administered inside the city, a WPC, which,
which is sewer collection and treatment, and then the sanitation fund,
um, for trash and, um, and bulky trash waste that are also collected within
the city.
The fiduciary fund we have one which is also akin to our retiree health
care fund, so a lot of people call it OPEB,
other post-employment benefits, and, um, and that is for our retirees.
It was placed into a trust for a while back and it continues to earn interest
in that a certain portion of that of that expenditure was there and so um
so those are allocated to our fiduciary funds.
So I always talk about what's kind of driving in our economy and um so inflation
outlook continues to rise because of our energy cost and kind of uncertainty
in the markets.
The current number for inflation is a little over 3%.
Job growth is rebounded in August, um, but unemployment rates are holding
steady at 4.1% nationally, but locally we always do better than that at
3.1%.
Con consumer spending remains strong and is predicted to continue to hold,
and that bodes well for us with the continuing resolutions that are already
on the books laid out ahead of the midterms this fall.
That bodes well for us going into the fall.
If you remember, and you'll see it in a lot of the slides,
we had a very weak fall, um, because of the shutdowns in,
in the federal government.
And so since we are a town that houses an arsenal and a lot of,
a lot of our um jobs are, are tied to that,
um, that caused us to have some, have some downturns in the fall,
but we expect that to be much better this fall.
The Federal Reserve decided on Wednesday to um to raise the federal.
Funds rate by a quarter of a basis point,
so it is now between 3.75% and 4.
it's range, it's designed to fight inflation over the rising energy cost,
but for us that just means a little bit higher on our,
on our borrowing rates and also a little bit higher in our investment income.
So both sides of the fence.
So now we're going to get into revenues.
Um, it's kind of the heart of our 27 budget.
All of this, by the way, starts on page 6.
Many, many, many of these slides, the graphics,
the charts that I present are all contained in your budget book that you
are, that you have.
I hope you will take the time to read the narratives along with that.
There's a lot of good information in there.
Mhm.
So this chart lies on page 6 of your budget books and starts the section
on revenues, um, excluding grants.
These 7 sources make up right at 90% of all the revenue received in the
city, and so they are very important to as we move through our budget this
evening or sorry, this morning.
I may do that a lot.
Um, general fund sources, uh, we, I throw this up there because the slices
of the pie and I'm actually gonna live here for a little bit over the next
couple of slides.
The relationships are important.
This represents our general fund.
So if you'll notice the gray and the gold slides are our sales and use tax,
um, for last year and this year it just fell just under 50%,
um, which was, um, which we're watching that so as other pieces of the pie
get get a little larger.
Um, if you'll notice some other larger slices,
licensing is in the peach up there.
Property taxes make up about 11% and the pilot revenue 9%,
and then the SSUT is at 7.2%.
And I'm gonna talk about that in just a minute.
So I redesigned this and reconstructed this because it was a different dynamic
that I decided to look back over a few years and see where that went.
Sales and use tax as a whole is climbing as the numbers are climbing,
but as a percentage of the hole in the general fund is declining.
Um, it is being replaced by, by an inclining SSUT and property taxes.
So, so while, uh, our property tax base that bodes well as far as the growth
and the assessed values and both and new builds in our community.
Um, SSUT is controlled by the state.
It is a little bit worrisome to, to be more in control of a state,
um, a state-controlled revenue source as opposed to our local,

[00:20:01]
locally assessed taxes.
So for sales and use tax.
The, um, the year to date collections are 3% ahead of prior year and 2.8%
above the revised budget, um, at we're, we're into the last month of our
physical year, so that should play into the remainder of the physical year
we hope and, um, and, and looks very good.
You can see those first couple of months were down,
especially in November we were under.
And we got concerned, but we seem to have come out and done well for the
rest of the remainder of the year.
So, um, this is a graphic you're going to see again and again in,
in multiple slides.
So I just want to walk you through the graphic real quick.
So the dark blue represents, um, actual years.
The aqua teal, I'm not sure what you want to call it,
um, is the projected amount, um, for FY 26.
And then what's in green is our proposed,
um, out there to the far right.
So this is our sales and use tax.
At the time it was 2.5% increased over the final projected numbers for 2026,
um, and, uh, following the trends and stuff,
we look like we will do fine, um, kind of clearing the decks for the fall.
It is a reasonable assumption that the next year the city will continue
on current gains, so that's why we, we pulled this,
this source up.
And it continues to support the 4 funds that are listed there.
So I wanted to, to remind you a little bit of how SSUT works.
So SSUT is at 8%.
Um, if you buy online and are in that particular,
um, uh, If you buy online for particular businesses,
um, the, the sales and use tax rate, the SSUT rate is 8%.
4% goes to the state, 4% goes to the city and county,
which is then split out mainly by population of the counties,
67 counties and 467 cities and towns, um,
split by population.
For our local sales tax rate, and I realized this is for Madison County.
It's uh different in Limestone County, but the Madison County,
uh, sales tax rate is 4% goes to the state.
The state is made whole either way.
Um, 0.5% goes to the county and 4.5% goes to the city.
So a larger percentage which also bleeds into at the bottom here the sales
and use tax rate, a $100 purchase in the city of Huntsville creates $4.50
to the city, um, for SSUT that same $100 purchase online creates 8 cents
to the city.
Now it is for the whole state.
But, um, but it, it makes a huge difference.
We are really looking towards the state this year and as we continue to,
to look, to look at the changes that we would like to see in simplified
seller's use tax and, um, because we continue to,
to just lose money each year to SSUT, um,
the projected loss for FY 26 is 44 million.
Our estimated loss to date is $333 million.
Um, for SSUT and part of it is down there in that kind of purple box.
So the percentage of online sales continues to grow.
More and more people order online.
I know I do for myself.
It's, um, it's easy to sit in your home and,
and not go to a store and purchase things and you just purchase it online.
So it makes it easier and easier.
So this is something that we've got to continue to,
um, work with the state to find a solution.
And um for for our city's revenues.
So bringing us kind of full circle back around to this year's budget,
um, the simplified sellers use revenue, um,
you can see the double digit increases every single year for that,
um, is estimated to be a 15% increase to $25.9 million.
Advalorm or property taxes is also a large portion of our general fund.
Uh, this represents the 6.5, this represents all three of our 6.5 million.
Uh, it is, it is estimated as we go through that,
it's under various provisions, um, for allocated for the schools and the
cities as I talked about earlier, um.

[00:25:04]
Property taxes investments continue to increase each year at an average
of over 10%.
Um, last year was a little complicated by the closure of three TIFFs with
the majority of those of that going back to our city school systems.
But some will extend back to the city.
We do receive advalorum in now 4 counties for,
uh, Madison, Morgan, Limestone, and Marshall counties.
So, um, so but these projections were completed based only on the limestone
and the Madison abstracts that we received from those counties.
So just to talk about a little bit about TIFS,
there's been some concern, um, that how TIFS kind of affect those advalorum
taxes that we receive.
So in the recent past, at the end of 2025,
we had five open TIFS 245, 206, and 207.
Um, you can see those are marked out into,
in the city, and then, but then with the closure of 24,
and 6.
It became this.
This is our current status.
Um, TIFF 9 is our newest addition to, to the TIFF.
So we only have 3 that are operating in the city.
And then with the addition of TIFF 8.
Um, that goes down there, um, in limestone,
and y'all are well aware as that moves through that process.
That brings us to lodging taxes.
Lodging tax revenue, um, is located outside of the general fund.
So now we're leaving the general fund.
I'm going outside.
Um, lodging tax remains closely watched by staff as it points in real time
to what people do with their excess funds and also,
um, also for commercial and defense industry and their travel to our area.
I want to talk specifically about the 1% um that was added so now our lodging
tax rate is at 616% in total, 10% going to the city that uh 1% that was
passed recently begins on 101 and so collections will start in November,
but um it is allocated toward the construction and maintenance of the VBC
in particular, um, looking towards the new expansion of the VBC.
Oops.
124.
This is how that tax has performed over the last year.
Um, in the last few years, year to date collections are about 0.3% behind
the prior year and 0.4% ahead of budget with,
uh, 91% of the year elapsed.
So, um, I really need to point back to that fall,
um, that was pretty, uh.
Devastating for this revenue source was that was that closure and so we
should do do better this fall, um, without the closure of of our federal
government.
Pilot revenue.
We've had a lot of talk about pilot different pilot revenues in,
in, in the recent past.
I know that y'all have been, y'all have received a few different,
uh, memos and, and different information on pilot revenue.
The major sources of that is what we have pilots for I want to talk first
about gas and water, so those are set at 6% um against the revenue gross
revenue that comes out of those systems.
So they are right now forecasted to be about 4.4 million each um in the
next year.
And then our electric system and our fiber system,
which we have talked about quite a bit at the mid-year time.
Um, is based on asset booked, booked assets and the Avalor taxes that would
be against those assets within the system.
And so that is now allocated to be much more level.
You can see in the graphic that the actual for FY 25 is 32.1 for 26 with
the, the.
dive that, um, Huntsville Utilities did and that we,
we assisted with on all of that, um, for 26,
it's going to be 32.4 million is that's where we think it's going to end
the year at and then the proposed for 27 is 32,
is 32.8.
Uh, mainly because of those increases with gas and water,
I fully expect our electric and fiber, should the construct not change to
level out and even decline a little bit in future years,
but we should hopefully stay pretty steady.

[00:30:00]
There, there are some other factors in the works that,
um, that we are looking at along with Huntsville utilities,
um, and pursuing some different avenues with TVA.
So this came out of the mid-year presentation and it was just specific to,
to that downturn.
I put this in here to help kind of understand where the,
the electric and the fiber system is there.
I'm not going to go through that.
So other revenue sources.
So while much smaller in, in many cases, they are still really important
to our, to our revenue streams and to the different work that we do within
the city.
We mentioned pilots, licenses, um, are a lagging indicator of the economy
as the majority is based on the prior year spending.
So based on these trends, we expect this to increase a little to $31 million
this year.
For gas taxes, um, up in your upper right hand corner list all the multiple
sources of the gas tax types.
All are assessed at the state level and distributed back to the local cities
and counties, um, based on a formula.
They can pay for roads, bridges, and other similar expenditures.
Um, revenues kind of rise and fall based on fuel prices and the consumption
in the economy, um, and with prices as they continue to grow this year we've
proposed just a small increase at 2.
7.2 million, mainly because of the population increase into,
into our city.
I want to note here that a major, a majority of this is spent on road resurfacing.
However, we do dedicate a portion of that to street lighting.
Um, the cost has outstripped the revenue since 21.
Um, so the general fund budgets to transfer in the amount of 2.9 million
this year to support the cost for FY 27.
Investment income, interest and investment income has come to play an important
role in our general fund budgets.
Um, in order to support the general fund,
it was decided to dedicate some appropriate interest streams back to the
general fund.
That means that for FY 26 and FY 27, um, the interest income has doubled,
uh, for the general fund.
In addition to these revenue streams, the Alabama Trust Fund,
um, which is based on oil and gas, uh, revenues that came into the city,
they came into the state, they set that up in a trust and then decided to
move back the earnings on that to all the different,
um, cities and counties based on population.
Um, that has, that it will come back to us.
That was, was in the 1990 Capital Projects Fund for last year in order to
support the general fund, we moved that out of that fund into the general
fund.
Um, it can be used for any, any type of expenditure within the city.
So general fund transfers, just want to point these out.
Um, these are kind of going out for our cities.
Um, so for public transit and community development,
um, to match their, their funds and their spending for the grants,
um, this year it's proposed at 4 million and,
and 1.1 million for community development.
EMA is a little bit akin to that.
EMA is supported by multiple, um, different entities,
uh, for, for this area, for the city.
This year it's, um, it's transfer is at 373,000.
The Orion Amphitheater.
So this is kind of a good news stories with the restructure that was done
back in the summer of this year, we were able to restructure that and this
year we should not have to transfer anything to the Orion Amphitheater in
support of the operations out there.
The gas tax funds, um, that's the street lighting subsidy that I mentioned
a few minutes ago.
And then the post retirement health trust.
So, um, so our retirees, um, there, it's the cost of servicing those,
um, those retirees for Medica for medical,
um, expenditures is above the premiums that are paid every year.
So it's actually valued at around 55 to 5.5 million.
But because of some of the savings in our normal health care for employees
and and their premiums, we were able to transfer that.
They are codependent on one another even though we keep them separate in
different funds because of the trust set up,

[00:35:02]
um, but they are codependent on one another,
so we feel it's appropriate to, to have those transfers go back and forth,
but this is helpful to the general fund, um,
in alleviating some of the, the cost to the general fund.
So, on the expenditure side, flipping sides.
So, this is the general fund department pie.
It is very busy, as always.
Um, it represents all the departments contained in the general fund.
Full cost for the general fund to the departments is that 327,
almost 328 million there at the bottom, uh,
it includes a 2% cost of living.
Uh, race and I want to point out police, fire,
and landscape really those are, are the have the largest employee base of
all their general fund departments and so they make up a larger portion
of different pies in this area.
This graphic is located on page 17 of your budget book.
This brings us to personnel or what we call authorized strength.
This year, it is proposed that council authorized personnel in a total of
3,37979 positions, um, which includes both part-time and full-time staff.
Um, it is an increase of 46 positions from our current state and I'm fixing
to go through those in just a minute.
Um, these graphics are located in your budget book beginning on page 22.
The Some of our, I'm gonna, I'm not gonna go through every single one of
the ads, um, and ad deletes for this year,
uh, but I will mention some of the larger ones.
So police, um, have 13, is added 13 new positions,
12 new sworn officer, which includes a sergeant,
and 1 digital forensic lab technician.
In fire there are 5 positions, 3 of which are district fire chiefs.
General Services, um, there are 3.
We added an HVAC technician and a facilities worker along with a general
service coordinator to their staff.
Parks and Rec.
Uh, 12 new positions includes both part-time and full-time.
Some of those, um, there's 8 new positions that are related to the Sandra
Moon complex, and then 2 positions that are related to John Hunt Park as
well as other park positions.
This is an oddity that came up.
I thought I would point it out.
So last year, um, legal said that they needed to,
um, move some administration around and move some administrative positions
around in their staff.
They added 5 positions last year.
They said they'd come back and delete 5 positions.
They have done so, um, in the year.
And so I wanted to point that out that we try to,
um, adhere to our word as as we move through,
um, different deletes and ads, um, when we bring that to the council's attention.
The public transit.
They added 3 positions, um, a paratransit worker,
um, dispatch, and a manager for our second shifts.
We run a couple of shifts out of public transit,
so that's important to keep everything staffed.
And then I wanted to mention this one, and in support of the reorganization,
there's one position that's been added in administration.
There are some other positions that will be moved around within the organization,
but, um, but all salary cost is budgeted with,
um, in mention of the, of the reorganization that'll be presented a little
bit later.
Hm.
So every year we go through this in vacant positions.
I wanted to mention this, while we approve a total of full-time and part-time
positions at over 3000, um, we have about 1/5 of those positions that are
usually vacant.
And so I wanted to bring this up as, um, as we turn over that we actually
budget for that.
We don't want When we're looking at the general fund,
it's such a tight budget, we don't want these vacant positions to just sit
there revolving around in our personnel.
We want to use utilize those funds for other things in our general fund
that that they need to be allocated towards.
So, um, given that, um, we have reduced that,
we reduced the cost in, in a number of departments,
um, according to their vacancy count.
We also, anytime we add positions, we only budget for half of their year
unless we're told other.
Wise, um, and, um, and, and then we budget mid range for their cost that
way again allocating time towards getting those positions established and

[00:40:04]
those and people inside recruitment time and things like that take take
that area.
So before I leave this section of um of personnel and strength,
I do want to mention that the new.
Um, public safety salary scales that are going to be mentioned that are
going to be talked about a little bit later in another presentation,
um, are considered in this budget, and they are,
um, they are allocated within the current budget that's in front of you.
Health benefits, um, the city is self-insured,
as I mentioned before.
That means that we cover all medical costs,
um, for our covered employees and their beneficiaries.
Uh, any cost over premiums and copays, um,
up to $250,000 per individual each year for FY 26 to date we cover 6,078.
Uh, individuals and the projected cost of premiums are set through our studies
along with what we are given by Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
The forecast study notes that costs will rise by about 7% or 3.7 million
in next year.
The FY 27 includes um those that rise in cost um how and although the city
bears the majority of that we do ask our personnel.
So we have, um, we are asking them to contribute as well to a 7% increase
in the premium rates, um, for, for our city.
Employees that are inside the health care system.
So, and I want to bring this up because sometimes people get um get kind
of wrapped around, oh well, we're only getting a 2% increase in COLA,
but we have a 7% rise in our insurance costs.
How does that how does that equate?
So the average pay for a city employees is around $75,000 annually with
a 2% increase.
It's up there on the screen about $1500.
And, um, at, if you have a family with PPO plan for 26 pay periods,
that's a $250 increase.
And so your net increase in pay over the year would be,
uh, approximately $1200.
So, um, so not, so when you're looking at percentages,
it's not apples to apples.
So for our healthcare insurance, um, it's provided to current employees
and retirees, um, qualified beneficiary, and I just want to bring this up
because our active employees per the policy is supposed to be provided this
at a 15% of, of the premium.
That's what they, um, they pay.
And then our retirees are supposed to pay 60% of the retiree premium.
And, um, the city of Huntsville, Huntsville bears all the remaining costs.
When it's actually allocated out, um, the retirees pay about 49% of their
premiums and the employees pay about 14% of their premiums.
In addition to this, the city runs, um, runs a wellness,
uh, has, has, uh, reflects a wellness rate if the,
if, if the employees choose to participate in that so they can get a reduced
rate on their premiums.
In addition, we also have the medical clinic that,
um, that is, uh, free of, free of charge for those,
um, taking advantage of that offering for the city.
So health care benefits, uh, the for active employees up there,
you can see how much our health care costs have grown over time and how
much of that portion is borne by, by the city itself.
Pensions.
So we covered healthcare and now we're into pensions.
So this is kind of our history of contribution rates for the city.
Remember, we have tier 1 and tier 2 employees,
although they receive the same, although they receive the same benefits
at the end, um, of their tenure here, um,
the, the, there's some different rates that we.
That we have to pay because the employees pay a different rate,
um, depending on whether or not you're tier one or tier two.
So for tier one employees this year, um, and the first in a number of years,
we were able to have reduced rates in both,
both tiers, um, for to, uh, 16.33% and 14.8%.
So as of August, the end of August for this fiscal year,
the city of Huntsville has contributed into our pension plans 26 million
with employee contributions at a little over 11 million.

[00:45:03]
Total employees that are enrolled in RSA is 2600 and um and then our contributions
per employee continues to rise but not as much as it has in recent years
um it's just risen a little bit over $68 and there's a lot of factors that
play into that but this is something that we watch in order to make sure
that we're kind of staying in line.
So this is for, we're getting outside of the general fund and Whitney is
going to come up in just a minute to present the outside agencies,
but I did want to mention our lodging tax expenditures.
This is not a slide I usually put up.
We usually just kind of talk about the revenue sources that are in lodging
tax.
Lodging tax is accounted for, and this includes liquor,
um, is accounted for in a separate fund.
And one of the things to help with the general fund this year was we actually
moved 3 agencies into the lodging tax, um,
expenditure fund.
They were able to bear that cost.
So, um, so Arts council, the community ballet,
and the, um, and the symphony.
Um, and sorry, the historic Huntsville Foundation were moved here as is
appropriate.
This fund tends to house those agencies, um,
that are what we call kind of closely held and,
um, and where we are actually the owners of that piece of property,
um, for some of this.
So we felt like it was appropriate to move those agencies here as well.
So I'm going to let Whitney come up and she is going to talk about our.
Outside agencies.
Good afternoon, Whitney Gentry Grant's manager.
Um, so this is the version of the outside agencies schedule that is in the
budget book.
This is found, um, on pages 26 through 28.
And just like we did last year, we have, we have organized the agencies
into different categories.
I think this kind of helps to show the different.
Um, areas of the city that we are helping through appropriations.
And so, um, something that, that comes up is agencies that are considered
outside, but that we have ongoing contracts with.
And so I highlighted some here, the food bank,
the, uh, the Marshall Space Flight Center,
Fantasy Playhouse, and then, um, Land Trust.
These that we have kind of ongoing contracts with,
these are for capital projects.
And so they are not considered something.
That gets voted on every year.
These are these are ongoing contracts that we have committed to.
So then this year, we actually have produced a separate book for the agencies.
Uh, this, I think makes it a little bit easier to refer to them throughout
the year and then also during this presentation.
So, the first thing that you will see is the agencies listed alphabetically.
This helps to just organize because in the book,
they are organized by category, but this is them alphabetically.
And then, um, we, we always include a version of this for you all.
This is the process and timeline for appropriations.
And the big thing I want to emphasize here is that this is the this takes
an entire year to do one round of funding.
Um, agencies receive their applications in March of every year.
And then where we are now in September and then throughout the year agencies
are responsible for submitting a 6 month and then a 12 month utilization
report so it's not just kind of what we do here um today it does take an
entire year to to help these agencies with their funding.
So a new section in the books that, that I'm gonna show you in just a minute,
um, it's going to show you a 5 year funding history.
And in this section, there's some symbols that are going to,
to show how the city supports agencies in different ways because the city
does provide a lot of support for outside agencies,
even outside of the annual appropriations that,
uh, that will be determined.
So, the first symbol is, uh, you all actually is council.
So, so this is, this indicates that funding has been,
uh, provided through the, the city council improvement funds.
The next one, indicates that the agency has a current contract for services
that they do for us.
Next one indicates that the city has provided some capital support for the
agency.
Um, this symbol indicates that the agency has been granted a sub-award.
Um, there's only two kinds of grants that are mentioned in this book.
There's ARPA, which is coming now kind of to an end,
and then also our opioid settlement, uh, sub-awards that we offer.
Um, this, uh, symbol indicates that the agency receives either free or reduced

[00:50:04]
rental rates, uh, through city properties.
And then the last one indicates that they received funding from our community
development department.
So then as you actually go into, um, the actual book,
this example that I'm gonna show you is, uh,
the Huntsville Museum of Art found on page 11.
I'm just kind of just tell you what you're seeing as you go through these.
The first is the category that the agency falls under.
So Huntsville Museum of Arts, of course, is the,
the arts, culture and tourism category.
The next is the mission statement.
So if you're not super familiar with the agency,
this kind of just gives you a starting point for that.
And then the project goal, the project goal is actually written by the agency
itself during the application process.
And so if you think about the appropriation as sort of a contract that the
city makes with the agency, we give you money,
you provide services to the community.
This is the goal of that sort of contract that we enter into with them.
So this is the 5-year funding history section that I just mentioned.
The first is a bar chart that you should be kind of familiar with.
It's shown up a couple of years now.
This shows the history of funding through the appropriation process that
we've offered for the past 5 years.
And then over here are the symbols.
So, of course, this one indicates council improvement funds,
capital, and that they, uh, the art museum was a recipient of an ARPA grant.
And the last section is the community impact.
Again, this is written by the agency during their application process and
this, you know, this is what we are going to hold them accountable to during
the 6 month and the 12 month utilization reports.
This is what they're saying that they're going to do for the residents of
Huntsville, and this is what we are going to,
um, ask them to report on.
This, uh, graphic just shows the different categories and their relationship
to kind of each other.
And if you think about appropriations as a statement of values,
it really shows the amount of, you know, funding that is allocated from
taxpayers' dollars back into the community to do good work in these different
areas.
So I'm not gonna spend a ton of time on this,
but I want to just give you a little bit of an overview of what the different
categories kind of entail.
Arts, culture, and tourism, they have a note on there,
of course, that these are funded by the Lodging and Liquor Fund.
So these are outside the general fund.
The remaining categories are all inside the general fund.
Community connections are these agencies this year are addressing items
like isolation, aging, financial constraints,
that sort of thing.
The economic development and workforce, um,
category.
This is really focused on district revitalization,
training the next generation of workers, uh,
improving access for those with differing abilities,
and expanding investment opportunities.
The education and youth services categories.
These are agencies that allow students to be well equipped and families
to not feel the constraint as their children grow and learn.
The health care category, um, these agencies funded,
proposed to be funded this year are really meeting people where they are
in the community, making sure that your income level does not,
uh, determine the quality of health care that you receive.
The housing, uh, housing and basic and basic needs category.
Um, with the rising cost of food, utility,
and rental, this is sort of helping people to bridge the gap of those things.
So they offer utility assistance, rental assistance,
also hygiene services, clothing services,
anything that is considered a basic need outside of healthcare.
The legal services and advocacy category,
these, these agencies are kind of giving a voice to the most vulnerable
in our, in our community.
So they're addressing, um, a wide variety of issues,
but this is making sure that, um, if you have legal services needs that
that that your representation should not be determined of course by your,
your income level.
The neighborhoods and green spaces category.
This is helping people in our community to feel more connected to their
own neighborhood, but also to the, the myriad green spaces that we offer
throughout the, the, the city.
And the last one, this encompasses the library.
So this is making sure that everyone across,
um, across the city has equitable resources to knowledge,
to tech technology and other community sources.
So this is, um, this is how it is kind of broken out just in a pie form.
So most of these agencies, of course, are indicated here come out of the
general fund.
And then just lastly some kind of interesting stats to kind of put this
in perspective of maybe some years in the past.
Um, this proposed budget includes funding for 55 individual agencies.
That includes 12 new agencies that have never been funded um through the
city appropriation process.

[00:55:00]
Of these 55 agencies, their total ask was a little over $20 million.
And then this, um, proposed budget includes funding of $14 million.
That's inclusive of both, um, both sources of funding for that.
So before I can turn it back over to Penny,
I'm happy to answer any questions or address anything.
Can we just hold on to those till we've gone through the presentation and
then we'll come back.
OK, thank you.
OK.
And now we're gonna kind of wind down a little bit to the final section,
which is our enterprise funds.
So we're gonna look at these sheer for both our water pollution control
and our sanitation.
So just going back a little bit of graphic of that financial structure.
So for our they, they are housed um in enterprise funds because they are
specifically set up just like a business,
um, both of these services that are provided in the city are charged to
the residents that receive those particular services and,
um, and so those that charge is designed to cover the cost of providing
that service for both of these entities.
So for sanitation, um, this is a graphic that's actually in your,
in your budget book found on page 44.
But it has and it has all kinds of other um type of information um along
with for both sanitation and for WPC but um these are all the different
routes that are contained they work from Monday through Thursday obviously
allowing for holidays um at different points in time but then covering throughout
our city and um and the route map is for the weekly residential routes throughout
our city.
Oops, sorry.
Backwards.
This is the operational expense chart.
The personnel is in blue and landfill charges are actually in kind of that
teal color, um, or aqua up, up in your upper left hand corner.
Those are the bulk of, of what goes through,
um, for this service, uh, personnel makes up a lot of that.
Oops, sorry.
Customer counts are growing steady at around 1 to 2%.
Charges for services will increase as well,
especially as the service area expands.
Um, I want to mention that there was a rate increase effective in FY 25,
um, which alleviated the use of local taxes and FY 26 from the general fund.
The rate increase forecasted in this particular proposed budget,
um, should help with the local tax use for,
for funds for trucks and heavy equipment that we pay out of our 1990 capital
projects fund.
It will be a start, um, but it is not complete.
We continue to have, um, spending out of that 1990 fund for the trucks,
um, large trucks and service, um, in our sanitation department.
The operational, the other thing is because this,
this fund is not in constant deficit, um,
it now allocates some, there's some interest costs that is allocated,
uh, to it each year which creates an income and will again be used for said
capital equipment that I just mentioned earlier.
So it's starting to look more healthy as we move through these years.
For water pollution control, uh, operates,
they operate 6 wastewater treatment plants in the city,
um, with the with the capacity that's indicated up there,
um, for the 6 plants, the largest of the plants are Spring Branch in the
western area which we did an expansion to not too,
too long ago.
Construction for, uh, major repairs and expansions of fleet plants and collection
system along with the personnel make up the bulk of the operating expenditures
for, um, for, for the wastewater treatment in our city.
And So charges for services are growing steady at around 3%.
This year estimated at 58 million includes a rate increase,
um, for that proposed budget and all operating expenditures are expected
to be, um, right at 52 million which includes operating expenditures of
27 million and capital improvements at, um,
19.3 million.
And this that uh bottom line of um 5.6 million will go towards other um
larger capital expenditures that are in the in the line.

[01:00:04]
The the line item for the 19.3 million really covers repairs,
cost, um, inevitable things that come up in running a system this large.
Um, as they go through the year, this 5.6 goes to that future,
um, treatment and expansions, regulations,
things like that that happen within our system.
And that is, that is the end.
Um, so, uh, thank you for your time.
I know it's a lot to take in.
We had a lot of ground to cover.
I appreciate it.
And, um, I'm not sure, uh, Council President,
where you kind of want to go from here.
I think at this point, we will open it up for discussions.
Mayor Battle, do you have any comments to add after this presentation?
Council members, the time is yours to ask questions.
Anybody wanna start?
Any questions, Mr.
Kling?
Is, are these great increases?
You had mentioned just a few minutes ago about rate increases.
Have they already been Incorporated they've already been incorporated and
they were passed by council in the last few years.
Um, we came before you with multiple year rate increases that way there
wasn't coming back and back and the plan could be set in place in order
to do the needed, um, needed expansions and needed equipment,
um, and other costs associated with those two funds.
Mr.
Meredith, I just want to say for the record that I'll ask my litany of questions
at the regular meeting when some action can actually be taken.
Anybody else?
Uh, then I'll go ahead and ask, can you just review with us again regarding
sales tax, um, our loss this year.
You, you have two online sales tax.
There's something, uh, 47 million was a loss,
I think I heard.
So our sales tax, I'm sorry, I gotta get back to it,
um.
So sales tax is not at a loss this year.
Well, I'm the estimated loss to online sales to online sales,
um.
I know.
So it's 44 million.
So this this number is is an estimated loss if those online sales could
be would be at the rates that were proposed for the city of Huntsville within
within our area that is allotted to within our area.
So while we make up around 4.5 to 5% of the city's of the state's population,
which is what our allocation is based on,
um, which.
Is in construct in relationship to the rest of the cities,
those 467 cities, um, are we actually because we are a hub and a larger,
larger unit with industry and commercial entities,
we actually make up between 7 and 8% of the state's transactions and,
um, and revenues that go on within the state.
And some would say that percentage is even higher um but um but so taking
that into effect and looking at this this is um this is one of the ways
that we can get back to um to an amount that we are missing out of our out
of our general fund should SSUT never came into play never come into play,
never be enacted.
So the estimate is 7 to 8% of all of the yeah yeah don't,
don't, don't, don't get on the on the percentages.
Look at the numbers we our loss this year is estimated for the for the for
FY 26 is estimated to be $44 million.
And that is you can see those numbers, those numbers in red that year it
it increases every single year partially because we continue to buy online
that line chart at the bottom partially because,
um, because we continue to grow as a city,
um, and the transaction.
For the state of Alabama continues to grow as well.
Part of that construct is also the fact that um that the Alabama Department
of Revenue sets those businesses that are able to be with it to live within
and charge SSUT as opposed to a local sales and use tax rate,
and those numbers have gotten larger.
They have allowed more and more businesses to come under the hat you said
that.
An effort is being made to look at solutions at the state level.
It does that solution include um.
Capturing revenues at the point of purchase.
So if, if a purchase is made by someone in Huntsville,

[01:05:01]
that that tax, the online sales tax associated with that stays in Huntsville.
Yes, that is part of the consideration that seems to make a whole lot more
sense.
So glad we're pursuing that.
Thank you.
And then there's been a lot of concern about pilots,
but it doesn't look like pilots is decreasing.
It's just going to stay flat.
It's gonna stay pretty flat.
And we've adjusted for that.
Your point regarding vacancies was interesting that 20% of the Um,
the personnel, the funded personnel positions are 20%,
so we have adjusted this budget to, we adjust our budget every year to look
at historical, um, percentages as we go through and see which,
which, which are vacant and which are things which,
which, uh.
So like for instance the finance department,
we tend to have all of our our personnel numbers are filled,
but for um police, fire, landscape, I mean those those employee bases are
so large and the populations, um, especially for like landscape,
the population's a little more transient.
We see those numbers grow and swell.
Um, Parks and rec is the same way.
It'll swell in the summertime and, and then get reduced,
um, during the rest of the year due to part-time labor and other things
that are that are required, um, for the services provided by that department.
So in HPD we've had trouble filling all of our funded positions,
but we're adding 12 more.
Um, what's the thought process there?
So believe it or not, the, the actual percentage of vacancies tends to remain
the same.
So if you take, you know, uh, a 20% or 15% of the total base,
uh, when we increase, we tend to be able to pull in a few more.
You wouldn't think it would work like that,
but it seems to.
So, um, so it's a good way, it's a good place.
Should we be able to fill those and fill more,
um, obviously we allocate for hopeful growth in,
in those different areas, um, but, but looking historically at the numbers,
that is what we budget to.
Hamilton, they're eager to help us increase our learning.
So the other thing that, uh, for both police and fire what I'm about to
describe is true.
Both of them have, uh, essentially a portion of their entry level force
that's doubled up in authorizations by cadets.
So when a new when we hire someone to come in to be a new firefighter or
a new police officer, they actually come in as a as a cadet,
fire cadet or police cadet.
Uh, and so the, the fire or police position that they will go to once certified
is sitting there vacant.
They actually are there as a cadet while they go through their certification
process.
When they become certified, they move to that and then the cadet position
goes vacant.
So you're almost always gonna have somewhere from 30 to 50 positions that
you've authorized in both police and fire vacant because they're in one
phase or another of the transition.
Uh, and that's just the way that works.
That's a, that's a a sizable chunk of your vacancies or just that,
that transition between cadet and full-time position.
And so the additional 13 then brings us up to the level where the,
the staffing level for HPD to accommodate the growth of the city so that
we can provide public safety.
Correct, and that's something that we've,
I mean, if you go back over the last 10 years we've,
we've sought to add a few positions each year so that that's an incremental
growth.
The recruiting process and the training process can keep up with that.
Uh, if we went 0 for a number of years then suddenly jumped to where we
needed to be, there's no way that the academy could keep up with that process,
and that's, that's a little bit more true for police than it is for fire
because fire tends to be incremental growth based on.
On fire stations they're not 100% like this year we've asked to add some
uh because just based on the geographic spread of the city we need to kind
of position our district chiefs a little bit differently and provide better
coverage and so three of those positions are actually new district chiefs
uh but you know if we if we add an additional fire station which there will
be some in the future we're gonna need to add we know out west we're gonna
need to add fire stations we know at some point Green Mountain's gonna need
a fire station so there's some that we know that are gonna out there that
are out there and you'll see that reflected in the capital plan.
Uh, those will, you know, you'll have to authorize an entire batch of firefighters
and drivers and captains to fill those stations,
and those will be, you know, those more, those kind of large incremental
jumps, but that's based on, on a fire station.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate that.
And then, um, Whitney, I just wanna tell you thank you very much for the
very thorough way you have.
Explained the grants process.
Um, you and Penny and I had a meeting, uh,
a little while back last, I think last spring to talk about the process
and it seems like every year you've refined it.
And but this book is, um, really helps us understand your thought process.

[01:10:01]
So thank you for that.
Thank you for reviewing all those grants.
I know it took forever.
And then again, I really like the report,
the 6 month and 12 month utilization reports.
I think those are very helpful as well.
I wanna ask something real quick, Mr.
Little.
I just wanted to follow up on Doctor Robinson's comments about the SSUT
shortfall, um.
And this is it, uh, so the question was if,
if, uh, somebody buys something on Amazon or whatever in Huntsville,
the tax comes back to Huntsville.
I forget there's a technical term destination or destination source,
yeah.
So does that require action in Montgomery to change that,
or is that something we can change?
So SSUT was an act, um, that was passed by the legislature.
It is a state controlled tax, so yes.
Thank you, madam.
Yes, Mr.
Kling, uh, where, uh, where does Eli Lilly fit into the revenue and expenditures
that we have in the budget?
I'm I'm assuming there's gonna be some construction and some activity during
this coming year that would generate some sales tax off of building supplies.
So Eli Lilly, um, will, and.
I don't know if you want if you want to speak a little bit more to that.
So Council McClean, it's a, it's a, it's a good conversation to have that
that project is a 5 year construction, uh.
We didn't really model any new revenue for FY 27.
Construction is estimated to start summer of next year,
so what will be left in this budget year would be mainly site work,
moving of earth materials, not a lot of construction materials being bought.
I think you'll see that as we get into the next year's budget.
OK, thank you.
Appreciate it, yeah.
Any other questions?
This is your opportunity to ask questions about budget.
All right then, thank you, Ms.
Smith.
Thank you to your staff for the very thoughtful way you have prepared this
presentation.
Um, you've given us a lot to think about.
And again we will consider Considered at the September 24th meeting.
And council members, if you have any proposed amendments for that 24th meeting,
please make sure you Meet with Ms.
Smith to talk about potential budget impacts,
uh, so that we can take care of those, um,
before we meet and make sure any amendments are given to us in writing.
Yes, Mr.
Mayor.
Where is that stated in our bylaws or oh,
it's not stated in our bylaws.
I think it would just be good practice courtesy that you're asking for,
but it's not something that has to happen.
Yes, and it is not just a courtesy for the staff for the council,
but it is a courtesy for the staff as well and also so that we can make
sure that things move smoothly.
We will move on to item 1C is a presentation by the administration concerning
the proposed ordinance amending chapter 2 administration.
Article 7 departments, department heads, and other appointed officers of
the code of ordinances followed by inquiries,
discussion, and input by city council with the mayor and administration
officials, and Mr.
Hamilton will make the presentation.
Good afternoon council members John Hamilton,
city administrator.
Uh, one of the items that, uh, is on your agenda for consideration,
uh, at next week's meeting is an amendment to our essentially organizational
structure and specifically on the personnel side to certain appointed positions,
uh, that are, uh, authorized by by ordinance.
So what I wanna go through here with you is exactly what those changes are.
Uh, some of them are whole new positions.
In other cases they're amendments, uh, and you know I'll start with kind
of how we're organized now so that we can then go step by step into what
the changes are.
One of the things I do wanna note and is that,
uh, we are kind of in mid stride of over time getting all of our departments
and all of our appointed officials actually codified in the code of ordinances.
So one of the things I've been working with the legal department on is while
every single one of these is authorized by a city council approved ordinance
and every appointed position uh is such as that happens over the years and
as our city, our municipal government has been organized uh by various ordinances
over the decades, most of them well before any of you were on city council.
Well, actually, some, a lot of them since Mr.
Kling's been on council, but the other four,
many of them go back well before, uh, before your tenure on city council.
Uh, what we find is one, they're actually kind of hard to find,
uh, and so while they exist and they're all legal,
they're actually challenging for the staff and for the public to,
uh, to find and understand exactly how their city government is organized.
And the code of ordinances is intended to be a place where as a repository
of those things that are intended to be of significant permanence and easy
for folks to find.
And so you've actually just in the last couple of years approved a few batches

[01:15:02]
of these where we are over time transitioning all those authorizing documents.
Uh, for the departments into the court of ordinances where they're easy
to find, and I'll kind of point out where we are in that process.
Uh, what this action is before you now would,
will take us another step forward, but we still owe you more of these over
time, uh, to, to bring them in, and, uh, little by little get the entire
city organizational structure actually codified in the code of ordinances.
So I'll start with how we are currently organized and functioning.
So obviously, uh, starting with, uh, with our elected officials,
uh, and I will note that, uh, the intent here,
some of these boxes I go through this org chart are individual positions
and those should be fairly obvious to you like the mayor.
Some of them also are intended to, uh, recognize a department.
So for city council is itself a department and that's already codified in
the code of ordinances.
The mayor is obviously an individual position assigned to,
uh, an organizational box that you'll see here in a minute.
In a position that I feel.
And then there's a number of departments that work very closely directly
with the mayor, so the administration department,
and I'll go into more detail on that.
So that's kind of a catch-all organizational structure just for certain
positions just for the admin and logistics of having personnel doing things.
The finance department, legal department,
and the clerk in each one of these organizations have at least one appointed
position associated with them, typically the department head,
but there are a few cases where there's positions below the department head
level that are also appointed and therefore,
uh, would be codified in the code of ordinances.
If I've got a question, are these 4, do they answer to you?
Are they under you or, or is this a co-equal thing like the mayor and the
city council?
So, uh, there's a couple of different ways to answer that question.
First off, you know, as, as the lines are designated there,
uh, if, if those lines went to me, then they would be reporting to me.
Those lines don't go to me, those lines go to the mayor.
So each of these, uh, positions report directly to the mayor.
Uh, I'll go through kind of how the mayor has,
has designated and how the ordinance designates leadership and oversight
roles to myself and to, uh, to the position that Mr.
Davis fills and oversight over departments,
but ultimately the mayor, uh, by laws who appoints the positions that are
there.
So that, that, that question will be answered.
But as that is constructed right there, those,
those departments report directly to the mayor.
From a grade structure standpoint, uh, you have myself,
uh, the finance director, the city attorney,
the city clerk, and Mr.
Davis, uh, are all of the same grade.
That's also two of our municipal judges, but they kind of obviously fall
a little bit different category.
So from a grade structure standpoint we've all been assigned to the same
grade.
Thank you.
And so, uh, you know, the admin department is made up of the office of the
mayor, communications office, multicultural affairs office,
Office of Economic Urban Development, and then you see down there in the
corner kind of the details of the key positions that are assigned to the
office of the mayor.
So I, I break that out one option because those are key positions they each,
uh, have appointed officials, uh, that, that are in them or lead them,
uh, but also it kind of gives you a sense of the construct.
So the, the way we're organized is primarily around departments and departments
are then made up of divisions.
And so when you look at the budget, when you see the,
the more detailed structure of the budget.
Of each department gets a budget and then they're broken out by divisions
so the functional uh building blocks of those departments and so uh it's
easiest in this particular format to kind of see that for the admin department.
And then there's 3 departments and these are also kind of grouped by functions,
so human resources, ITS and general services that I provide oversight to
on behalf of the mayor, and those are 3 departments that obviously primarily
are focused on supporting the other departments,
kind of internal internal support to the other departments.
We have a position of director of public safety.
It has not been filled for quite some time,
but that position is still out there on the books,
and it's something that as we as we go into the transition that the mayor
has recommended here, a position at that level,
we think there's some point in the future where it comes back.
It's not something that's being recommended right now,
but structurally that position still sits out there.
And obviously that would have the 3 public safety departments underneath
it.
And then, uh, this group of departments and,
and you notice the color code is, is there on purpose,
uh, because those are departments that, uh,
that I provide oversight to and, and each of those are departments that
are pretty that that are externally focused and delivering services to our
community on a daily basis.
And then you have the director of economic and urban development.
Uh, and under, under Mr.
Davis for the next 2 weeks, uh, unless we can convince him to pull his retirement

[01:20:00]
paperwork back, uh, you've got the planning department,
and I, I break out the three divisions there.
The actual director of planning position is vacant,
uh, but the three divisions that make up the planning department are each
led by managers that are actually appointed officials and the Community
Development inspections and Natural Resources.
City engineering, traffic engineering, and water pollution control,
uh, each led by department heads that, uh,
report to the director of urban development and then of course the municipal
court.
So that is how we are currently functioning and organized.
And I might, I might step in and say um this is about the same organization
that we had in 1984 when I first came to council uh we had uh city administrator
was Ralph Gibson at that point Dallas Fanning uh was director of economic
and urban development and you know it's, it is,
um, it is, it's time tested is, is done well for us,
but I think it's time for us to move to a secondary,
um, system.
So, uh, go into what is proposed.
So what I've done is left up here what is not changing with one exception.
You see the, the box in yellow, uh, the, the ordinance that's in front of
you does not create the position of director of city services,
but as we build this out, you'll see, uh,
the, the concept that we believe we should transition to over the years,
and I don't know how many years that is, uh,
but over time is establishing positions or executive level leadership,
uh, over.
The groups of departments and all the the like items together and so I wanted
you to be aware of that concept and again that's something that uh whenever
whenever the mayor feels is the right time to bring to you we would do that
but I wanted to see you that you see that as a concept so you understand
kind of the thought process that's going into this would that person be
responsible to you?
Uh, I don't believe so.
No, I think what would happen, that, you know,
the, the dotted lines there because those patients are vacant.
So, uh, you know, my expectation is that,
uh, that would result in a transition in the duties of city administrator.
You would have executive level leaders there reporting directly to the mayor,
but right now, essentially you have two vacancies that I'm,
I'm filling as part of my duties.
That's, that's what the dotted lines are intended to represent.
Thank you.
So still a director of economic and urban development.
With the 4 departments that are particularly focused on development and
planning of our of our urban development.
And you see the yellow box that appears there in the admin departments is
very similar to what you did recently, uh,
to, uh, to create the Office of Economic Urban Development.
That's basically a division so that it can house the personnel associated
with, uh, with that function, uh, and then an Office of Infrastructure Development
that would house senior director of engineering.
That's a new position, uh, and then the other immediate staff that,
uh, that that position would require to support them.
And in that position would have responsibility over the 3 departments,
particularly focused on constructing our horizontal infrastructure.
And of course no change to municipal court.
Now The, I, I say we're at mid stride of getting,
uh, getting departments and positions actually codified into the code of
ordinances where they appear that way physically.
Again, every one of these departments is authorized by,
by an ordinance, but not all of them have been done in a way that actually
gets them published in the code of ordinances.
And so that's what we're working towards.
Uh, is getting that accomplished for every single one of these,
so we, uh, we need to continue to, uh, to work through to get every one
of those, uh, departments with a green check box on it,
and I'll tell you some of, you know, what is also before you,
uh, some of them that are in there, you're now doing,
uh, amendments to is based on this proposal.
So first is a change to the duties and then therefore the title of what
is currently the external affairs officer,
adding some significant duties associated with industrial recruitment and
economic development assisting the director and so that that title change
and duty change to external affairs and industrial recruitment officer.
Second is Multicultural Affairs Office.
Now this is one, you know, it's important that we all,
uh, that we all continue to learn as we go along.
Uh, if you go to the code of ordinances right now,
you'll see that office still has in the published form the title of ODEI.
This council took action, uh, not too long ago by ordinance to change the
title of Multicultural Affairs Office and so that is,
that is the governing ordinance.
What I discovered after the fact, uh, and we're now wanting to correct is
that the way we did that while it is a completely legal ordinance and it's
absolutely the, the law of our city right now,
it was not done in a way that causes it to be published in the code of ordinances
and so the actions before you.
Essentially redoes what you've already done but gets it so that it uh the
code of ordinances is updated and reflected correctly and you know based

[01:25:02]
on us having kind of discovered what uh what happened there uh our commitment
to you is that we will continue to make sure that when we bring you changes
to departments and or appointed positions we'll do it in a way where they
get into the code of ordinances so you don't have to go searching around
for all these different ordinances that may contradict each other.
Next is creation of uh or establishment of the Office of Infrastructure
Development, uh, and with that the position of senior director of engineering.
The action also amends uh some of the duties of the director of ecom urban
development and also not reflected on the chart,
but there's a deputy director, uh, whose duties also then are aligned with
the changes occurring to uh to his boss and so both of those are are in
in the code.
We codify the city engineering department so it gets added into the code
and also the community development, so, uh,
making progress on getting more of our departments,
uh, actually published in the code of ordinances and like I say we'll continue
to, uh, to do that as we go forward.
So those are, uh, the things that, uh, that are in front of you in,
uh, in this particular ordinance.
So just a recap, uh, this is just a list of the actions that are in that,
uh, in that, so an amendment to title and duties of external affairs officer,
amending the title of Multicultural Affairs Office and the title of Multicultural
Affairs Officer, many of the duties of the Director and Deputy Director
of Economic Urban Development, establishing the Office of Infrastructure
Development in the position of senior Director of Engineering.
In codifying the city engineering department and the position of city engineer
and codifying the community development department in the position of director
of community development, so that is a quick,
quick snapshot of uh of what that ordinance reflects.
And I'm happy to take on any questions on this that you might have.
Questions council members Mister Meredith.
I would like a copy of the slide deck.
It's the one thing that Well, actually, the next item we don't have either,
but we don't have copies of this.
I'd like copies of this, uh, provide that to all the council members,
thank you and um.
I will have a bunch of questions about this next week,
but um.
It I'm troubled by the fact that this has already been rolled into the budget
without any action from the council.
And I'd like to know what the impact to the budget is if all of this is
passed by the council.
Sure, that's no problem.
One of the things, you know, kind of as I totally understand your point
about kind of the way the budget process works,
uh, you know, because there are oftentimes multiple things that have to
come to you as separate ordinances, uh, and they're all interrelated and
affect the budget.
Uh, just like the COLA, for example, um, you know,
no matter what sequence you do those ordinances,
you have to vote on them separately and so there's always some interplay
and so you're absolutely correct that, you know,
there are, there are multiple ordinances that are on your agenda next week
that all have some relation to the budget.
Uh, so yes, every time that we bring you a budget,
it has to make some assumptions about what you might do on other,
other related actions.
Clearly if you choose not to approve those things,
uh, where you choose to not approve this,
for example, or, or amend it in some way,
that's gonna have some budget impact.
We may have to go back and bring an amendment to the budget to,
to account for that there's.
The next item on the agenda today is an even bigger example than this one,
has significant impact on the budget.
And so, uh, we do have to make assumptions like that.
And so clearly we, you know, staff are prepared to react to that should
y'all should y'all choose to amend or disapprove one of these things.
If it's possible to get that information prior to the actual meeting,
I'd appreciate it, meaning, meaning the impact of the budget.
Sure, absolutely, thank you, sir.
Mr.
Kling, did you have a question?
Personally, uh, in the work I do, uh, I don't really care about the,
the labor pains.
I just wanna see the baby, uh, people out in the neighborhoods,
uh, they wanna see their streets resurfaced,
and, uh, finally it looks like Eustace is getting done.
So I think for me.
I don't care how this is set up, a position of Mayor Tommy Battle,
Loretta Spencer, whomever, you know, give them the tools,
let them do their job as they see most effective,
uh, we.
Kind of cross a little bit into administrative.
I know we do, we shouldn't, but when we do emails and stuff like that,
but uh.
It's a nice presentation, but again, it's what a mayor,
this mayor feels like he needs to do the job the best way,
uh, and probably 99% of the people out in the public,
they really don't know what the bar graph is or who does what they just
want to see the bottom result, so.
Yeah, I mean, I appreciate it, but I'm very ambivalent,

[01:30:01]
ambivalent about all the details, however y'all want to set it up to make
it work for you the best.
You know, fine with me.
Let me know what the budget adjustments are,
and then, you know, that's, that's the part that would come into play,
and I would probably be, you know, amenable to give him the benefit of the
doubt on.
And, you know, ultimately it's about Hispanic control.
I mean just the basic human dynamics of, of managing and leading a large
complex organization.
Uh, obviously we are a large city and, and rapidly growing city.
And so over time making sure that you're getting leaders positioned where
they need to to to manage those issues, deal with concerns in the neighborhoods
or what those things might be, uh, ultimately you've got to have,
uh, you've got to have that structure in place so that we can deal with
stuff as a matter of routine as opposed to everything being an emergency.
Other questions Miss Ms.
Watkins?
Yes, if you don't mind, I would like a copy of that or proposed or chart
to include the updated titles, what their responsibilities will be,
and if there will be a pay raise involved with those positions.
I think that's what Mr.
Meredith was asking for as well.
If you can provide to everybody that.
Well, I was reiterating, and I was specific because I said I wanna know
if they're getting a raise.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
Mr.
Little, any questions?
Thank you, um, Mr.
Hamilton and Mayor Battle for, for creating this organization.
I think one of the questions we get a lot is how is the city accommodating
growth, and we don't think of the staffing that's required.
So this is addressing as the city grows.
We're creating a structure to accommodate growth as well.
Thank you.
We will then move on to item 1 D.
Item 1D is a presentation by the administration concerning the proposed
ordinance, amending Ordinance Number 89-79 classification and salary plan
ordinance for the addition of a public safety salary schedule to provide
any rates for certified law enforcement and fire suppression positions,
followed by increased discussion and input by city council with the mayor
and administration officials, Mr.
Hamilton.
So, uh, the item that's before you is a proposal to make a Pretty substantial
amendment to the city salary schedule that uh that governs how we compensate
employees uh and I wanna say this is uh this is a little bit of a long presentation
and I'm purposely building it kind of block by block because.
Uh, and this is, I know as council members you're,
you're familiar with our pay chart.
There's probably a lot of details that are,
uh, that when we get down in the weeds on that aren't things that typically
you have to deal with, but for the public in particular,
there's a lot of, a lot of folks probably in the public that don't really
understand how it is that we compensate our employees and ultimately it's,
it's their taxes that are funding this.
And so I'm gonna purposely go kind of step by step.
What I would ask, I, you know, I understand that you,
you typically like to hold questions till the end.
Because of the complexity, if I'm on a slide where where there's something
about that particular slide that's confusing and I need to to clarify that,
please do that because the way I build this,
it'll be really painful to try and go back.
This is, uh, this is a lot of animations to kind of build this block by
block so that it's understandable, uh, to everybody who might be watching
this.
So council members ask your questions as we go through.
So you know, one of the things just for all of our employees,
uh, they, every position is assigned a grade.
Uh, there's a process in HR where they go through based on the responsibilities
and duties and qualification requirements,
and they're assigned a grade, and it goes from grade 1 all the way up to
grade 24, and then their actual compensation within that grade is determined
by a step process.
And so it's built around the idea that a brand new employee would come in
at step one and then there's a step in a in a raise associated with step
increase all the way out to step 25.
That's the, that's the the theory under which it's built.
The reality is there's some positions and sometimes in a hiring environment
where we might bring folks in at what we call higher than minimum and so
there are some employees that might come in,
not starting at step one, they might start at step 5 or 10 or whatever and
in this particular case we're talking specifically about our certified police
and fire suppression personnel, and that's true for them when they come
in brand new they do not come in at step 1.
And so I'll I'll explain that.
But ultimately that that step progression is uh is what we're looking at
here and then ultimately when when an employee gets to that top step to
stop to 25 we refer to it as being topped out and I know I know y'all all
heard that before and we have a lot of employees across departments that
are in that topped out situation and for them.
They don't, as long as they stay at that same position,
that same grade, uh, they don't get any more step increases for,
for the remainder of their career.
They do obviously get whatever COLA, uh, that it might be approved at each
budget cycle, so.
So with that to start.
So first off, uh, what we did was, uh, just do an assessment of our region
looking at similarly positioned, uh, cities and departments and counties,

[01:35:03]
uh, to, uh, to see how they are compensating,
uh, their personnel in these categories that we're talking about here and
what we found in general obviously there's.
Departments are kind of all over the map,
but we understand where, you know, who are the departments that we're competing
with for talent and looking at how they're recruiting as compared to how
we're recruiting and things.
What we found is in general our entry level and early career salaries are
actually pretty competitive with those other departments.
Uh, mid-career salary advancement, the way ours is structured as compared
to some of them, there are a number of examples where kind of as,
as our employees are approaching mid-career,
they're actually falling behind relative to,
uh, to some of those, uh, what I'll call competitors.
They're obviously our partners and friends,
but we also are competing for talent with them.
And then the top out salary, uh, was actually well below a number of our
competitor, uh, uh, our competitor partners.
So the positions affected by what I'm going to present are all of the positions
that are held by certified fire suppression personnel or certified law enforcement
personnel.
The numbers that you see there are the grades within that grading system,
so a brand new firefighter cadet, and then firefighters at grade 13,
police officer 14, all the way up to the deputy chiefs at grade 20.
Obviously both of our chiefs are appointed officials.
They are not in any way included in this.
This is solely merit employees, and you see the titles of the positions
that reach those grades.
And so obviously it's a mixture of both police and fire personnel.
So what does this do?
It creates a whole new grade designation for each position.
So a 13 becomes a 13% and that that matters just inside of our payroll system,
the way the program works, uh, you know, every position,
uh, and actually if you went into the computer system you'd see that it's
actually a 01.
3 or a 014 so it's a three digit code in the system that that that governs
the payroll and manage the payroll so we needed a three digit code and so
we went with P for public safety uh so uh a 13 becomes a 13P 14 becomes
a 14P and on on so on all the way down to the 20s.
Uh, it does, uh, continue to align our current,
the current salary associated with each step to a commensurate step within
the new grade, and I'll show you that that's where,
that's where the thing can get a little bit confusing.
Uh, it does extend then that by, by doing that,
it allows us to compress the early steps which leaves room at the end to
actually do, uh, an extension out to the full 25 steps,
and that's how you ultimately get to a higher top out number.
Uh, it does accelerate the step-based salary raises in mid-career.
So there's a couple of places where you see,
uh, uh, these at the, at the entry level,
uh, these employees would take what is effectively a two-step increase.
And then it provides that higher top out salary.
What it does not do, it does not in any way alter the relative grade level
of any position.
It doesn't alter any of the HR processes for determining a grade level.
It doesn't alter any of our hiring standards or processes.
It doesn't change any of the job description or job specs.
This is purely a payroll action.
That you're taking, so you know when we talk about if,
if one of the chiefs need to create a new position and he went through the
process of a JIQ and took it to HR and they went ran through the same process
they do for any employee in the city, this doesn't in any way change those
processes and that grade will be determined by by those HR,
uh, processes and they would be assigned though to one of these public safety
grades based on that.
Based on that process.
So starting with firefighters and what you'll see,
I'm gonna build this out to show you how firefighters are currently compensated.
Uh, the structure to what I'm showing you here for the grade 13 firefighters
is the same structure as the grade 14 police officers,
but I will show you that as well.
But you'll see when I get to police officers,
you're gonna see basically a repeat, but you can see that they're,
they're handled consistently.
So across the top, I know those are small numbers.
I don't really intend for you to read them on that just reflects the city's
grade 13, step 1 through 25.
The second line I've just kind of blown out steps 1 through 15,
so it's a little bit bigger so it's easier for you to see.
So when we go bring in a firefighter cadet.
They come in at step 8.
So this is an example of, uh, of a position that starts at higher than minimum.
This is actually established by ordinance a few years ago.
We brought you this action and, and the things that are about to be reflected
here because it's the, the firefighter and police entry level position is
very unique as compared to all other employees in the city.
Uh, so they come in at a step 8.
So steps 1 through 7 are not part of the equation for firefighters at all.
Uh, they start at step 8.
And they remain in step 8 until they're certified.
That's approximately 9 months, uh, and when they get certified,
when they've completed their training.
Uh They skip over steps 9, 1011 and go directly to step 12.
So they, so they sit at step 8 for approximately 9 months of their,
of their first year, uh, and then jump to step 12 once they're certified.

[01:40:02]
If there's, if there was an issue with a particular individual where something
delayed their certification process, they don't get to make the,
make the jump until they're actually certified,
but that's a fairly rare circumstance.
But in general, uh, all your, all your firefighters would jump to step 12
at about the 9 month mark.
And then on their 1 year antivert, I'm sorry if I can interject.
If it's a lateral Do they come in at this step 12?
They do not.
So laterals and that and and actually, uh,
we just did some recent updates, uh, with you,
uh, and, and, and.
The way it is today, I, I'm about to say how it is today because of this,
you know, assuming you'll approve this change,
we'll also need to amend this to keep the laterals to where they need to
be.
So, uh, by ordinance laterals that are coming in with certain creditable
prior years of service come in at higher steps based on those years of service.
So if we get a lateral transfer that has 3 years of prior service,
they come in at a step that what basically what we did is if you came to
us as a brand new rookie.
What step would you be at after 3 years, and a lateral comes in with 3 years
is one step behind that.
So we are giving a little bit of extra credit for having spent your career
with us versus having come from somewhere else.
But we do need to compensate them for that prior experience,
so they, we don't feel like they should come in at brand new entry level.
They are, we, we did hire them because of their experience,
but we didn't want laterals to be able to come in and jump ahead of the
folks that have spent their entire career with us.
So as you go through all the years of the potential years of service up
the scale, they're always one step behind where they would have been if
they'd been here for their entire time.
Now with when you see how we're restructuring this,
we've got to go in and amend those steps because it's gonna be different
step designations with this change.
Would they ever catch up, meaning if they stay here for the rest of their
careers, will they always be a step behind someone that started?
So they will catch up at top out.
Now here's the other thing is you get your step increase on your anniversary.
So there are times where, you know, someone who is one step behind their
anniversary comes a little bit earlier and so they get equal and then a
few months later that person jumps back ahead.
So sometimes it might be less than a 12 months just based on anniversary.
Um, and that plays in actually at the end of this I'm gonna give,
I've got 4 examples of actual employees of how these changes affect them
because you've got the COLA and this change and their step increase are
all things that affect that individual's pay and so I kind of show you how
that happens, uh, and it's, and the step is specific to your anniversary.
Thank you, sir.
Sure, and so on their 1 year anniversary they jump up to step 13 and then
it's one step at a time as they go through.
And so this, uh, if you, so what I've done on this third line is just take
this is the current grade, uh, and just gotten rid of the steps that a firefighter
never sits at so just kind of compress it,
make it easier to read.
So what happens is they start at 8, then jump to 12,
then go to 13, and in sequence out to 25,
and they currently when they hit their 13th anniversary is when they get
topped out.
So if you think you know our retirement system basically lays out a 25 year
career path, clearly we have lots of great,
great folks that choose to go beyond 25 years,
but if you're doing a 25 year career, you will have spent the last 12 years
of your career topped out, OK.
Now going to police, exact same format and structure here.
Uh, and so I'll go through a little bit quicker because it's,
it's literally the same thing.
They come in at step 8.
They, they also spend about 9 months going through the certification process.
They also jump over those steps to step 12,
and then on their first anniversary, go to step 13.
And so exact same structure to theirs, uh,
and also get topped out at their 13th anniversary.
So exactly the same.
Why the difference in Salary because it's different grade,
so it's different different scope of responsibilities.
So a firefighter grades.
They're different grades Well, the firefighters that were 8,
I believe were 57.
OK, let me go back.
You're using fourteens versus thirteens, is that because that's their grades.
Got you.
OK.
Thank you.
Yeah So The structure to their progression is the same.
The salaries are different because it's a higher grade now,
so a firefighter is a 13 when they get promoted to fired driver,
then they go to 14, OK?
And I'll, the, the promotional process also plays into this,
and I'll get to that here a little bit later in the presentation.
So what you see across the top there is, you know,
again I'm gonna blow this up where it's readable.
I just want to kind of, you can always kind of refer back to the comparison.
What you see in the green is the, the existing 13.
Now firefighters are not the only employees in the city that are grade 13.

[01:45:01]
We have teams.
We have employees all over many departments that are,
are, are graded at grade 13.
Those employees are in no way affected by this.
And so what you see on that top line is would remain.
The salary schedule for any non-fire suppression employee that's a that's
a grade 13 and so if with your approval the firefighters would move to 13%
uh and that's the second line that you see there uh and I'll I'll explain
how we structured those salaries to keep it uh linked in in its in its structure
to the existing 13.
So this is what, uh, again, going back to the 13 with getting rid of the
steps that that firefighters don't experience.
So they really start at step 8, jump to 12 and 13 and beyond.
And so at their one year anniversary, I'm just gonna kind of show how they
progress based on their anniversaries here.
And so as you see 13th anniversary, they jumped to uh to a step 25.
So when you align 13% with that, you see that at the entry level and we
said, you know, our analysis indicated that that that that entry level in
those early years, the salaries were pretty competitive and so what this
proposes is keeping those lined up as they are,
uh.
And so The first year And you'll notice that all the way out,
uh, right until right before they hit their 6th anniversary,
uh, the salaries are the same.
But getting at the issue we indicated uh we're falling behind as they're
approaching their mid-career point, uh, we wanted to do some compression
to accelerate them through some of these steps as they get into their mid-career
point.
So we deleted what what equates to the current step 18.
And so what would be step 19, so if I'm right now today I'm a step 17 on
my 6th anniversary, I jumped to step 18 with that salary you see there are
69,000 and change.
So what we're doing, you know, if I'm on the 130 I'm a 7.
And rather than going to a step 8 at the salary associated with step 18,
the old step 18, I'm actually jumping to a salary that equates to the current
step 19, right?
So it's that relative to our existing numbers that equates to a 2 step increase
on my 6th anniversary.
And then one a one step increase as it lines up now.
And then a second compression where at my ninth anniversary typically I
would be going from the 71,500 to the 72,600,
but we are deleting that.
And another two step increase, so we are accelerating their progression
through the salary structure.
And then it carries out.
So what does that mean?
The current top out step 25 is what I get to at my 13th anniversary,
77,100 and again these are using 2026 numbers,
uh, and, and I'll, you know, obviously, uh,
we, we have recommended that you approve a COLA so these numbers in 27 become
different, but I'm just to do an apples to apples comparison for you structurally
we're sticking with all the 226 numbers.
And so right now I would get to, to that number at my 13th anniversary,
and now you get there at your 11th anniversary.
So you're getting to what is currently the top out salary 2 years faster
than today.
And then as you see there's additional progression beyond that so they continue
to get step increases deeper into their career and so there you see the
rest of the proposed 13% salary structure so you'd be getting to step 16
in your 14th year, uh, and then you get to your top out of your 23rd year.
So again what this does is using 25 as a 25 years as a baseline career.
Uh, you're getting to the top out prior to your retirement eligibility,
and so you spend your last, uh, last two or three years at that highest
salary again.
All of these numbers get bigger every year that,
uh, that you're able to approve a COLA.
So again, this is just the FY 26 numbers.
Mr.
Hamilton, if you know off the top of your head,
this one I'll give you grace on, what would be the top out,
um.
The way it is now, the way it is right now,
the top out is at 77,126.
OK, so this is significant, um, and you had mentioned the middle and the
top outs we were less competitive and woefully um less competitive on the
top out.
Where are our contemporaries, uh, that you've based.
The fact that we aren't competitive, where are they on these various,
uh, steps and grades?
That that's an extremely difficult question to answer because every single
one of them is a little bit different, um,
yes, but on, on average, the, the numbers that we picked here is that we
set as a top out was not random.
It put us right in the, in the competitive range that we needed to be.

[01:50:01]
The one example that I'm immediately remembering was actually aligned with
assigned to the or associated with the police,
uh, and it was actually a Limestone County Sheriff's Department and,
uh, you know, as we were going through lots of different.
Permutations and stuff and looking at lots of different departments,
you know, the mayor's comment was, I, I, I can't be below the Limestone
County Sheriff's Department as it relates to police.
Now what we did ultimately is, you know, structurally made sure that everybody
was treated.
Uh, the same across, uh, across these two grades and so that's why when
I go to the police when you're gonna see the exact same structure here it's
another repeat, but that was just one example I remember we looked at a
lot of other departments, um, and there, there's a lot more departments
to do comparison against in law enforcement there is in fire because you
have so many there's so many areas around us are actually covered by volunteer
fire departments so there's not quite as many data points,
much easier to get a, a real breadth of data.
Points are on the police because you've got,
you know, other police departments, you've got sheriff's departments,
other things like that.
So there's just more departments to compare against,
uh, but ultimately what we wanted to do is make sure that we were consistent
in the way we structured it for both the fire department and the police
department.
So, so more or less, um, the average or meaning mean of our competitors
or would this be a bump of say one standard deviation above to entice them
to come to us?
So, uh, you know, there's a lot of things that we're doing that we,
we think, uh, helps with recruitment.
In in the way in which we, uh, we compensate,
this is all you're seeing here is just their base pay,
for example, right, so that's the other thing is,
you know, any, any time we will just even with the cola,
even if you didn't approve any of this, if you approved the 2% cola,
you know that makes this base pay number go up by 2%.
It also means that any overtime they earn has gone up by 2%.
It also means that any special assignments pay that both police and fire
have quite a few positions that receive a special assignment pay on top
of this, that goes up by 2%, right?
And so, and their benefits packages, the cost of that thing,
so it's, it, it cascades through a number of different things in the budget
for simplicity.
I'm just showing you the base pay which.
All of those things are basically built off of the base pay.
So, you know, both chiefs have looked at ways in which they can offer some
of those kinds of things, uh, and other benefits.
And so that's, that's a whole separate conversation,
a great conversation to have, but, uh, we believe that as we looked across,
you know, one is we, we don't think we need to go generate a wage war.
None of us will win that.
all of our employees are worth.
Well, a lot of money, OK, and, and, but the taxpayers ultimately have to
be able to fund that.
So what this proposal is as we looked at,
you know, what is a competitive wage relative to existing.
And so this, I think this keeps us consistent as opposed to jumping ahead.
Now there's some departments that we're already ahead of,
but there's other departments we're behind.
And so this is really trying to keep us consistent with those surrounding
departments.
Uh, this was not an attempt to jump way ahead of them.
Because in some of those cases they have deeper pockets than we do and they'll
just jump back ahead again and we'll never,
we'll never win that, uh, win that fight and so we,
we think that we should be consistent.
That's really what this does in general.
It's not a dollar for dollar thing.
I'll never be able to get you down to the penny,
uh, but you know our assessment is this keeps us consistent with where we're
seeing those kind of highest wages, and we do believe this is,
is competitive.
We would like to be able to do more, you know,
unfortunately, uh, what, what the mayor's proposed is a very tight budget.
We would love for it to not be so tight.
There's a number of things that we'd like to do more of,
um, and so, you know, the, the budget is built assuming that you approve
this, um, but, uh, but if, if, if there's a desire to amend this and do
more, they will have to find that money.
That money does not currently exist.
um, so that's kind of where we are.
I think I have a long time to answer your question.
I think that the simple answer to your question is we believe this is consistent
with some of the highest.
Uh, highest compensated departments around us,
so it keeps us consistent with those, with those peers.
Very good enough.
Thank you very much, Mr.
Hamilton.
And police again this is gonna be a repeat,
but I think it's valuable to show both.
And so they go through the exact same structural progression as the firefighters
do.
And we built out the The chart To match.
And so one of the things I do want to point out,
the intent here, uh, and the way why we kept it aligned,
uh, is because we, we do have those consistent HR processes for designating
grades, and we do have a lot of other great employees that are at these
grades, uh, and so the intent is that as we continue to do colas and other
things, uh, other, uh, payroll actions in the future,
that the step one of in this case 14%.
Is always the same as step 8 in the regular grade 14.
Now just as counsel, you know, made the decision a few years ago to bring
firefighters and police officers in at step 8.
That could also that there could be something in the future that we currently
can't currently predict where you decide they need to come in at a higher

[01:55:01]
step.
Obviously that's that'll be a separate conversation,
but in terms of building the the the amounts of money in each of those steps,
the intent is that it remains consistent with the current step progression
process as it relates to the existing salary schedule as we've always had.
Uh, uh, an amendment to that in the future is a separate conversation that
we need to address at that time, but that's what,
you know, what you're asked to approve right now keeps that consistency
between, uh, those two salary schedules because they are,
as, as we establish grades, they are the same grade.
It's a special designation based on their particular positions,
but it's still effectively a grade 13, a grade 1415,
16 on up.
And so then Again, the same, same for police officers.
Now we do have grades 15 and 20.
This is where I wanna talk about the promotional process because there is,
uh, there's.
A similarity on how we propose a structure and a difference between the
things I just showed you.
I just showed you the two positions that are the entry level positions for
firefighter and a police officer, and we,
we do have a lot of great folks who choose to not pursue promotion and decide
to serve their entire career as a firefighter or entire career as a police
officer, but also many that do pursue promotion.
The policy for all city employees when you get promoted is whatever step
you're currently at in your current grade.
So if I'm currently a step 5 or a grade 5 step 5,
whatever that amount of money is, then I get promoted to a grade 6 position.
I get, I go to whatever step within grade 6 that gives me at least a 5%
raise.
OK, now just because of the way math works,
it's, it's oftentimes, you know, 5.01 or 5.1 because we're not gonna,
you know, put you somewhere in between.
You gotta be in a step, uh, but whatever step gives you at least a 5% raise
per grade.
So the hypothetical I just gave you with someone going from a grade five
to a grade six.
Many of our promotions are actually multiple grades.
Many times someone, uh, because we generally,
not always, but generally have supervisors two grades above the positions
they lead, you could have someone who's going from a position up to the
supervisory position, and that typically would be a 2 grade increase.
In that case they get 5% per grade, so they'd actually get a 10% raise,
whatever step gives them at least a 10% raise in that particular circumstance.
Uh, I've seen, it's pretty rare, but I've seen some that actually have gotten
a promotion that's 3 or 4 grades, uh, and so they would again be 5% per
grade, uh, whatever they're promoted.
And so for police and fire for the position I'm talking about here,
all of them that are at grade 15 or higher got there by way of promotion.
We don't bring in any laterals in at any of those higher ranks or grades.
Our laterals come in as firefighters or police officers,
and so then they have to go through a promotional process.
So but we do need to hire the the salary structures to be set up ahead of
the lower grades so there's actually incentive to get promoted right?
uh and so what we've done.
The similarity we did in proposing this new in this case 15% and I'm showing
you 15 I'll throw up all the other ones after they're all exactly the same
in terms of structurally how we did it so uh to to focus your attention
we took the existing 15 and.
Started with 8, went to 12, and then ran out all the other steps.
What we, so we, we did the, the starting steps the same way I did for firefighters
and police.
What we did not do is those mid-grade deletions,
right?
So that's the difference between what we did for 15 through 20 as compared
to the to the 13 and 14.
But you see the, the early, uh, the early step compression.
Uh, and so 1 through 1 through 15 align with the current 8 through 25 and
then the additional steps to get to the higher top out,
uh, out there at the end and then just to really make it confusing 16 through
20 they're all structured exactly the same so same thought process went
into how each of those are structured and what ends up happening when you,
you know, sometimes you'll have a firefighter who is highly motivated to
get promoted and as soon as they're eligible to go compete to become a.
And they'll get promoted and then as soon as they're eligible,
you know, compete to become a captain and so they will progress at a certain
rate, but because it's set up where it's 5% from your current salary level,
that, that brand new driver who's been with us only 3 or 4 years total is
gonna be at one step.
Another person could be promoted to driver the exact same day,
but they'd already been with us for 10 years.
They're gonna be much further down the salary schedule at grade 13,
so they will, you know, that those additional years of services acknowledged
as part of the promotional process and so they will jump to whoever gives
them a 5% raise at grade 14.
And so, uh, there is not an attempt in our system does not attempt to say.
Every firefighter that goes to driver then starts driver at the same step.
They go relative to their years of experience based on that 5% per grade
promotional process.
And so, you know, where folks may fall is they then go to captain or in
the case of police officers going to investigator or investigator or sergeant

[02:00:03]
or going to lieutenant, they all fall into these grades and on what step
based on where they, where they came from in terms of what step they were
at and based on that 5% per grade promotion,
so, um.
That's, that's how these ultimately get structured but gets them all out
to uh to that higher top out that we believe is competitive with with our
surrounding peer agencies.
So some examples, uh, and these are, I've just picked 4 employees.
I'm not giving you the names.
I'm not even telling you which department,
but some of these are police and some of these are firefighters.
Uh, but just to give you an example.
So this first one is, uh, well, you can tell that's a firefighter because
it's grade 13.
Uh, this particular individual has 5 years of service.
So right now today, uh, he's a grade 13, step 17,
making 68,000.
So, uh, the, the COLA we proposed, and obviously this chart assumes that
you approve approve the COLA, uh, which takes effect in early October,
would get the 2%, uh, 2% raise, and so it's still a grade 13 step 17,
but goes to 69,400.
Then what's proposed here is to take effect in November.
Now, the reason for that is what we've described here,
actually getting it built into the system and getting implemented is an
enormous amount of work for the payroll division.
Uh, they can't, they can't do it ahead of time because that'd be pretty
presumptuous.
We gotta, we gotta do it the way you actually approve it.
Uh, and so what, uh, what we've done here is first everybody gets the COLA,
uh, and then this can be go live in November,
having based on rebuilt the whole salary schedule and every individual has
to be assigned to a particular step based on their situation that is mandated
by the ordinance.
And so in this particular case, uh, this employee would go from 1317 to
a 137.
As we said, those early years, this, this employee is at 5 years,
uh, it was lined up the same, uh, but then,
uh, in December this particular employee hits his hits his anniversary and
so we go to step 8, and would jump up to,
uh, to 71,800.
So between now and, you know, to January I kind of picked a,
a, a, a block there it's about a 6% raise.
Here's an example of a grade 14, uh, very,
you know, but 21, more than 21 years of service.
So currently, uh, is a grade 14 step 25, so,
you know, has been topped out for, for a number of years.
Uh, we get the 2% cola in October and November adjustment would go to 14%
17 and then he hits his April anniversary and that final block it should
say today through April, a 7% raise.
Here's an example of an employee's a grade 16 with 12 years of service.
You can see there he's a 16-18 remains that but with 2% cola then goes to
a 16P8, which does not represent a raise but then goes at his February step
increase up another level to a 4% raise.
And then an employee that's grade 18 with more than 21 years of service
and you can see the progression there obviously I uh I failed to update
that final block as I copied this format down but uh.
They each uh get those raises based on their steps and here's the thing
this is uh I've got the number here how many employees this affects.
It's 863 employees that are affected, so you can imagine the very large
plurality of different anniversaries we have amongst 863 employees between
the two departments.
And so every single one of those will be affected differently depending
on when their step increase hits relative to colas and other things.
But these were 4 examples to kind of give you a sense.
Uh, one is to emphasize what I showed you before was purely to so you understand
the structure using the 26 numbers when this actually takes effect in November
with your approval, they will all have already gotten a COLA,
so those numbers become a little bit different because of the COLA and then
of course they continue to get their step increases in some cases,
uh, many of, many of these employees are topped out,
so they'll be back to getting step increases for the first time,
uh, in, in many years so.
And happy to take on any questions that you have.
That is a lot to absorb, council members.
What questions do you have, Mr.
Liu?
I want to go back to the big chart with all the steps just for a little
clarity on my part.
So we'll just use 15 um so somebody that's uh.
Step A grade 15 step 20 today.
They'll be if this is all approved it'll be.
It, it'll be a wait I need to use a 25.

[02:05:01]
I had the question then I didn't wanna interrupt you even though you told
us to interrupt you.
I'm having a brain fart.
So first off, let me make sure if you, if you look at the ordinance,
um, one of the issues that we wanted to address is that because right now
these employees get topped out so early.
You could have a broad range of years of service where where where all those
employees are currently topped out, so you top out of your 13th year.
So we could have an employee that's been with us 13.5 years and he's topped
out versus someone who's been here 30 years and you know she's making the
exact same salary because they're all once you get that's part of the issue
with the top out is when you get to top out that's where you sit for however
many years you choose to serve after that so I mean you literally could
have somebody who's 13 years of service versus somebody 35 or 40 years of
service all sitting there at the same thing so.
What we, uh, what we did is to try and acknowledge at least some of that
difference in the proposal is if you are currently a step 25 but less than
18 years of service, you go to a step.
If you're between 18 and 21, you go to a next higher step,
and if you're above 21, you go to.
The next higher step after that.
So in your hypothetical, if I'm at a 25, what step do I go to?
It depends on how many years of service you have.
There is a little bit of spreading out of those employees.
Uh, now we acknowledge that is, that is not.
A full acknowledgement of everybody's individual years of service.
You know, there's, there's some, there's some folks,
if you tried to do that, they just go right back to being topped out now
they, you know, they obviously appreciate the raise,
but some of this is also about how do I balance affordability,
how do I incentivize continued service, uh,
and so that's kind of the structure we came to that was that could acknowledge
it as best we could and remain affordable,
uh, so that's, that's where we are.
If you, so if you use a hypothetical of somebody who's step 25,
there's 3 potential answers to your question based on their years of service.
OK, thank you.
I think I'm good.
Thank you.
Uh, other questions?
I'll ask one then.
So going back to this, um.
With regard to increasing the years to top out.
It would seem that sometimes the focus is on the steps rather than the salary,
and it almost seems to me like if you just focus on steps,
it's gonna take me so much longer to top out.
Instead of looking at how much more money you will be earning,
how much more capacity you have to earn in that time,
that's, that's, that, that's where the incentive for retention is.
It is, I mean, so it's certainly for, for those,
and, and, and one of the things I mean, I,
I, I spend a lot of time talking to employees and,
and managers about, you know, their, their,
you know, their own decisions on when to retire.
I will, every one of us will go through that same decision making process
on when's the right time for us to retire given our personal circumstances.
Uh, some people are motivated by higher salary and,
and understanding how that impacts their pension because we're in a defined
benefit plan for on the pension plan and so,
you know, that your salary has a direct impact on what your pension benefit
is as well as how long you serve.
So, you know, our employees increase their pension benefit by higher salary
and more months of service, OK.
On both of those things have a direct impact in that formula that determines
that, right?
Uh, and some, some people are in a situation,
you know, whatever their, whatever their family situation is or their personal
goals where that can be very, very motivating.
Other people have made a different choice,
and some of them have said, I'm serving 25 years and that's it,
no matter what, right?
And that's again, that's their choice, and that's,
that's their own personal decision to make.
Uh, so we certainly for, for employees that are seeking to,
uh, to improve their compensation and ultimately improve their pension,
then having additional steps to go that they otherwise would not have had,
I would expect it's pretty motivating for someone who's not at all motivated
by the money, then, then it's not gonna impact their personal decision.
But again, we've got 893 employees impacted by this.
We got 893 different thought processes on,
on what this means for their own personal situation.
But you're right, I, I would say I, I, I,
I've talked to employees and I'm not, you know,
this is across other departments as well that talk about being topped out
and then when you say, OK, but what's the actual compensation associated
with that, it, it, it, that sometimes there are some folks that get that
kind of get fixated on saying I'm at the highest level,
you know, in this particular case, uh, you know,
you immediately, uh, in this action jump folks higher than they would ever
have been under the existing structure.
So it is, you know, direct and immediate improvement for them.
Uh, you know, every one of them want to be compensated as well as they possibly
can.
We want to compensate them as well as we possibly can,
but it also is what actually fits in the budget.

[02:10:00]
So having balancing, balancing that is really what this is attempting to
do.
It also looks to me like we, since we will be paying those 8 potentially
paying those 893 employees more than we would have under the current salary
structure, can we afford this if we run the numbers out into the.
10 years from now and how does it impact the budget so we haven't necessarily
modeled it all the way out there because there's so many other variables.
I'm not sure that we could get to a model that we would necessarily trust.
Uh, cost of employees is our, our single largest cost always has been and,
and always will be, uh, and that's something that,
uh, that any organization has got to keep their eye on,
right?
Uh, and so yes, absolutely, every just the cola,
so you know we proposed a 2% cola across every single employee.
That that sets a new number that the next year's COL will be based on and
so it absolutely is a has a multiplicative effect across the years uh and
uh and so those are all things that we're gonna have to be able to afford
um the reality is this is one of those things I'll tell you that that you
know I, I had a conversation with uh with both chiefs and and I've shared
this with the mayor as well in, in, in my opinion.
We can't afford to do this.
We can't afford to not do this because the issue is we have got to ensure
that our community is safe and you know every single department.
Does enormously important work.
If we had decided that the work of one of our departments was unimportant,
we would have gotten rid of it, right?
But it's all important, but I think as y'all know in in engaging with your
constituents, if people don't feel safe leaving their homes,
they start worrying a whole lot less about the pothole in the street,
right?
They still worry about it, but if you feel unsafe,
that suddenly in terms of the hierarchy of needs getting that dealt with
suddenly becomes a whole lot less important.
We have got to ensure, uh, that our community continues to be safe.
This is not because.
Currently unsafe we need to get there we are a very safe community this
is about how we sustain that which obviously all of us have to work together
to do that and we think making sure that we're recruiting and retaining
the right talent uh is the biggest component of that obviously you know
technologies help as well, right?
So technology can make us more efficient but ultimately this is the people
business and we've got to make sure that we're getting the right talent
and retaining them.
As best we possibly can and we are in a very competitive environment we
do have departments around us, uh, that have been able to tap into different
sets of resources and do some significant escalations in their salaries,
uh, and they're recruiting our people away and so this is,
uh, we are, we are from a personnel standpoint,
from a talent standpoint in a very competitive environment and so trying
to remain competitive, uh, given our size and scale which is challenging
so you know one of the issues that we deal with.
Is a small department around us can come in and offer one of our people,
hey, if you'll come over here I'll give you $5000 more.
Well, the only way for us to counter that out counteract that is to give
every single employee a $5000 raise, right?
If we feel like we've got to match them, well,
it costs them $5000 for that one recruit.
It costs us $5000 per person.
And so it's a much bigger number, right?
And so we are in that environment where, uh,
where some of those other departments are able to do some things that are
challenging.
So we've got to be prudent about how we, we go through this,
uh, but again, I believe that what we've represented here is competitive
with those with those surrounding competitors for,
for talent, uh, and, and again they're also our partners.
We go fight fires together and fight crime together,
uh, but when it comes to recruiting people they are competitors so.
So So this this change is designed to help us to recruit and retain and
fill those vacant positions that we have and also to accommodate the plans
of a growing city so that we can provide the protection that we need.
Thank you.
Anybody else?
Um, can I, if I could just 11 moment, I realize,
um, you know, council members, you've got,
you've got a lot on your plate to consider in this budget cycle,
uh, and I know just having talked to, I think just about all five of you,
there's different things that you're thinking about and contemplating in
terms of potential amendments or, or things that you might have.
And, and this will now be my, I don't know,
14th or 15th budget cycle most, most times in all those years.
So my experience in, in, in kind of working with y'all and,
and sitting here watching you, uh.
Many of the amendments you bring like inside the general fund,
you know, we can figure it out the night of,
you know, I wanna amend this and take 10,000 from here and add 10,000 over
there or whatever, those are ones that, that the finance department has
have the ability to advise you during that debate and then make those decisions
and, and we can still have a good balanced budget.
Uh, I would say even you know the, the reorg,
uh, has actually relative to the size of our budget,
uh, you'll see that that has a pretty limited impact and if you,
if there's things about that that you want to change,

[02:15:00]
then that's something that we could probably deal with in the heat of the
moment if we aren't aware of, if we aren't aware of ahead of time.
This is extremely complex and you might have an idea to,
I just want to make this little tweak and that might be a $100,000 tweak.
Another of you might have what you think is a similarly sized tweak,
but it's actually a million dollar tweak.
We will not have the capacity.
The staff will not have the capacity to advise you on the cost of that in
the heat of the moment in the middle of the council meeting.
So what I would recommend to you, obviously it's,
it's your choice.
I would recommend that if you are wanting to kind of dig deeper into this
and explore changes to it, you're gonna be best served by engaging with
myself and, and Penny and her payroll staff to do that analysis for you.
Uh, I've, I've had the payroll staff run me some what if scenarios on this,
and it's the time it takes to do that is measured in hours,
not in minutes.
Uh, so if, if it's something that you do want to engage and drill deeper
into, I will absolutely be available on your schedule to go through it with
you and, and try and give you the answers you'll need to make an informed
decision.
It will be extremely challenging, if not impossible to do that in the middle
of the council meeting.
So, uh, I, I offer that to you as a recommendation.
And again, as a matter of professional courtesy to the staff,
um, council members, please engage with Mr.
Hamilton and with with Ms.
And again with regard to the professional courtesy we owe the staff,
please engage with Ms.
Smith, Mr.
Hamilton, if you have questions or plan to make an amendment regarding,
uh, the potential budget impact.
Mr.
Meredith, did you have a question?
Well, commenting on that, um.
If we had ran across what you're saying where it was gonna take hours instead
of minutes to to go through it, this, uh,
body also has a right to pass a continuing resolution to allow them time
to set that out and then we can at that point pass a budget so you don't
have to technically pass a budget next week.
So we do have as much time as this body would need for them to make their,
uh, their adjustments.
I think that would create significant challenges,
but you're right, because we have that doesn't mean you necessarily should
do that.
I would suggest you have a week here to work things out,
bring your best estimate of how things would work to the council meeting,
but we do have that opportunity if we need it.
Mr.
Kling, did you also just, I was just gonna recommend on,
on that point if I could, um, you're absolutely right that,
you know, you technically could do you.
Do a CR, um, I think the way because of the timing and because this doesn't
take effect until November as it's currently as it's currently proposed
if if we encountered that in the middle of the meeting my recommendation
then so I'll offer it now would be to go ahead and pass the budget as is.
Postpone this to the next meeting in October,
resolve that, and then we could, you could come back and amend the budget
to account for what you did in this, you know,
in this particular action and that, that,
that would not be an insurmountable issue administratively for,
for the staff, obviously not the preferred course of action.
But just in terms of the timing, we have time to respond to that,
to those changes if we needed to because of,
because this doesn't take immediate effect.
And thank you for that option, Mr.
Hamilton.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
Did you have a comment?
I think more of a question for our city attorney.
Just so we don't get hit with a whole bunch of amendments that other council
members are presenting at the meeting itself,
can, without violating the Sunshine Act.
Can council members who have proposed amendments put them out for all 5
council members to see so at least we know what's coming instead of last
minute surprises right at the meeting itself?
I think you can do that, but you cannot deliberate on those things.
One way communication, correct?
And again that would simply be professional courtesy.
I think that would make things a lot smoother.
We know what's coming and then we have a chance to individually think about
it, but yeah, no deliberating.
Um, we have two more items on the agenda and again speaking of courtesy,
uh, for us and for the audience, uh, let's go ahead and take a 10 minute
break if that's OK with everybody, so we'll,
we'll come back at 1:28.

[02:28:41]
All right, it is almost 1:28.
And we're going to go ahead with the agenda one.
Well, we don't have to have a quorum because we're not gonna be voting.
The former Thank you.
One E is a presentation of the proposed fiscal year 2027 update to the 2014
capital improvement plan by the administration followed by increased discussion
input by city council with the mayor and administration officials and.
Is this, this is not going to be your last time at the dioce.
I think the next council meeting will be.
No, ma'am, we still have we're just glad to see you here,
Shane.
I'm glad to be here.
This is, this is one heck of a team.
Good afternoon council members.
I think we started with good morning.
We, we are now saying good afternoon, but a lot of progress has been made.
Uh, so I'm here to present to you the 2014,
uh, capital plan for FY 27.
Uh, the project, uh, plan remains much the same as you've seen in recent
years focused on mainly four really key categories being public road improvements,
economic development, uh, drainage and bridges,
and public infrastructure.
That public infrastructure piece is more focused on.

[02:30:00]
Getting back into our neighborhoods, uh, in our established corridors.
So we'll jump into this.
So annual reoccurring revenue, I, I believe this may have been if you're
looking at some really fine detail of Ms.
Smith's, uh, projected revenues, this, this item along with the 90 plan
was part of that tax structure, uh, but it's $69,410,000.
You will notice there's no planned debt issued revenue.
So if we were going to issue debt service and go borrow money.
That revenue or that issuance of debt we were gonna borrow would jump up
into this line to add to the annual reoccurring.
The annual reoccurring, I like to call it,
is cash that comes annually into the budget.
No, no debt, uh, proceeds or any grants associated with road projects.
Uh, those are captured in a, in a different manner.
Uh, uh, the, there is a, uh, typo there, FY 26 capital,
I should say FY 27.
I'll have that, uh, fixed for you next Thursday.
Uh, but the proposed projects is $64.3 million.
Our current annual debt service within the plan,
so prior debt services for roads and other infrastructure that you have
approved, uh, currently sits at $9.4 million.
So a total expenditures of $73.73 million.
Now certainly $73.3 million is more than 69.4,
uh, but remember both capital plans when Mr.
Hamilton comes up with the 1990 plan.
These are dedicated, uh, funding sources so those carryover balances roll
forward to the next year.
It's a rolling 10 year capital plan, so the current balance sets at just
over $5.6 million.
So when you add that to the, uh, plan revenue,
it leaves an ending balance of $1.3 million to the positive.
Uh, let's get into, uh, you see this every year is,
is how are we doing this.
This project plan was typically when we passed it in 2014 was intended to
carry some debt service to accelerate larger projects and pro you know,
in infrastructure probably one of the first things we did in 2014 when this
was passed, so we did restore roads one, and,
and that was $125 million from the city and $125 million from the state.
Uh, those 5 projects have grown into 11 and it has exceeded 250 million,
which is a good thing for us.
We're, we're getting more projects completed.
But At the inset we borrowed $50 million right out of the gate to be able
to go do restore roads so it's always intended to carry some debt but predominantly
be a cash as you go pay as you go fund.
So for the FY 27 budget, uh, that, uh, ratio would be just under 13% debt
service and, uh, just under 88% cash, uh,
for the projects that are to be, uh, completed.
So what does that look like in this 10 year plan?
You, you can see that the debt service does jump up to just under 30%.
I do want to, uh, go through that and tell you that is a little bit of an
anomaly.
That is not the full.
You'll see that number compress.
The 28.7% is really to prime both TIF 8 and TIF 9.
So, so as we borrow those debt funds for TIF 8 and TIF 9,
our capital plan has always paid those early debt services till.
That private investment has occurred.
Those revenues start coming in, and then the TIFF will actually reimburse
those.
So this is modeling TIFF 8 and TIF 9 those the next five years.
After that, you'll see that 28.8% get more in line with that 10 to 12%.
Is that, I'm sorry, is that kind of a that 12%,
is that kind of just a standard we, we have,
I, I've looked last 5 years we've been in that 8 to 10% range.
So yeah, this has creeped up a little bit with the Ryan Amphitheater and
some things that that we've done, but it's usually about a 90-10% split.
You're welcome.
So funny by categories we, we take the 14 plan it's and it's really in 5
categories, 6 if you add the the debt service.
And I think this really shows uh.
The tale of two of the of what this capital plan is meant to do.
It's meant to turn the knob when we need to in this community to accelerate
capital plans or or do tips where we can advance infrastructure.
So the, the top category is, is just the 2027 budget and,
and what I mean by that is when we get to the red bar,
which is the debt service, so.
Uh, the predominant, uh, theme for FY 27 will be the redevelopment efforts.
That's corridors, I think, uh, Memorial Parkway corridors,
North Village retail project that we've done in recent years.
It's been Hayes Farm, it's been Bob Wallace where Whole Foods is those corridors,
it's been mid-city on University Drive, those well established corridors

[02:35:00]
we're reinvesting.
Uh, and, and for this, uh, the highlight I would refer to that's the,
the most highlighted project that's going on right now is our Mill Creek
project.
It is significant, uh, both in, in reward to the community but also in investment.
Uh, if you may remember we received a $50 million grant to go with that.
Uh, that project has 8 phases and we'll go on for the next 5 or 6 years
in this capital plan.
So that's why you see that bar being uh the highest next exactly what this
project uh this capital plan is supposed to be and that's roads and bridges
in in orange then we get into our multimodal parking.
And then next our annual debt service economic development has always been
a small piece of this.
It has been to really deploy infrastructure in the community.
Um, and then, uh, cash reserves, we, we, we want to be able to make adjustments
if opportunities arise with a grant project is to be able to match those
grant proceeds.
So we always wanna have some cash reserve,
uh, whether it be an industrial project opportunity like Eli Lilly that
we can respond to or a federal grant, uh,
program that allows to take a long awaited project for this community and
be able to go compete for that grant project.
And then let's jump down to the, the bar to the bottom is a 10 year kind
of rolling average if you will, uh, each year we'll fine tune this going
forward based on the needs of the community.
So, um, you're only voting on, as I've always said on the 2027 line item
of this 10 year capital plan.
But as you can see as we balance back out going forward,
roads and bridges remain king at the top at uh 29%.
The debt service is a little bit of an anomaly at at 29%.
As we move to the right in this plan that will be reduced as TIF 8 and TI
9 start paying the debt service, uh, independently of the 14 plan providing
some supplement.
Uh, cash reserves you can see are over $100 million.
Um, I don't want you to let that fool you or the public.
Uh, what will happen in those outer years as our engineering department,
planning department identify road projects?
What are those next big road projects?
They will get put in those years 67, and 8,
and you'll see that cash reserve look much more similar to the FY 27 budget.
It's just saying there is cash there in the outer years.
To do significant projects, there's been talks of,
you know, that restore roads too, to do something like extend the interstate
or I-565 Memorial Parkway.
How do we accelerate those?
That gold bar there is showing you we have that ability to go try is,
is we get new leadership.
Montgomery, try to go make that happen.
That this plan is very flexible in, in the way it is.
It's been designed in the way we have used and been good stewards of the
taxpayers' money, in my opinion.
Redevelopment efforts that's annually at about 10% where we're taking corridors
we're reinvesting into existing parts.
This is a growing community and we're spending infrastructure in the growing
parts of our city, but we this plan also goes and reinvest in the existing
parts of this community.
We don't want to feel left out when we're talking about infrastructure,
so it's at about 12% and the multimodal and parking downtown continues to
grow.
Uh, so we've, you know, our western corridor with a run,
we've got parking coming there.
Multimodals are greenway networks.
Throughout all districts, uh, sets it just under 10%.
And the economic development count has averaged anywhere about 5 to only
7% of the overall revenue spent out of this.
It's this is an infrastructure, uh, capital plan.
So I'm almost finished, uh, to ask any for you to ask any questions and,
and, uh, any requests you may have.
I always give you this overview of what does 27 look like 47 active and
future transportation projects totaling over a half a billion dollars.
Uh, 27 projects you're looking at Northern Bypass Phase two.
That's from Memorial Parkway to Winchester Road,
uh, improvements to help, uh, morning and afternoon.
Uh, rush hour on Governor's Drive there around the California intersection
Holmes Avenue, uh, from downtown into Research Park Eastern Bypass Winchester
Road construction.
The last phase of that widening project, uh,
we'll start Swancott Road, uh, design, get a head start on that as we,
uh, start to consider what we'll do with,
uh, hopefully TIF 8, and, uh, TIF 8 would actually provide accelerated funding
for that construction phase one, a resolute way.
Uh, the most important project to Redstone Arsenal and certainly to our
commuters both locally and abroad getting in in and off,
uh, post the, uh, one of the first two phases into,
uh, the new, uh, road in South Huntsville,
the Edinburgh Extension Old Big Cove Road,

[02:40:01]
uh, we have started design this adds continual funding for Old Big Cove
Road widening in the Hampton Cove community to start looking at right away.
And and the construction of that is actually funded within this 10 year
capital plan and then our county line road relocation.
Future key projects I think are important for our community and ones that
are in particular uh ask about by our citizens is Resolute Way Phase two
that's actual interchange piece uh that would connect Governors West over
I-565 in Madison Boulevard, the East Arsenal connector,
uh, that will actually be part of the, uh,
first phase of the Southern bypass for the city in the future.
Uh, phase 3 or the last phase of the Northern bypass which would get,
uh, State Route 255 from Winchester Road to US 72 that would complete that
loop from US 72 on the east side of the city to I-565 there on,
uh, Research Park Boulevard.
would be one half of Councilman Clean's ring road that,
uh, he keeps putting, we'd be 50% complete with that.
And then, uh, probably two most critical projects left in this city to,
to really push the needle on, and that's Interstate I-565 extension east
of Shields Road and the interchange of I-565 US 231 in our downtown corridor.
Uh, Interstate I-565 exit 3 upgrades, uh,
we do have some design funds in the capital plan.
It's not enough, but.
Should you and Limestone County move forward TIFF 8,
we would take that off the list out of this capital plan and let the TIFF
district accelerate that.
Uh, drainage improvements is Penhook Creek flood mitigation,
Brogland Branch improvements.
Those are active ongoing projects had multi-years of funding within its
capital plan, uh, corridor redevelopments as I've mentioned,
the Mill Creek Choice Neighborhood project in partnership with Huntsville
Housing Authority.
Uh, there along Governor's Drive and Clinton Avenue Avenue,
certainly our downtown business district we're,
uh, there's an ongoing annual, uh, what we call Downtown redevelopment fund
that, that gets seeded every year and as a big project comes we complete
that project and move on to the next downtown project,
uh, the park project that is currently active,
uh, so we're in phase one of that if you've been.
Uh, along heart of Huntsville you start seeing some of the stacked stone
going up vertically, and we'll start to see more and more activity as we
get into the fall.
Uh, our engineering department should be early next year,
uh, bidding out the five bridges, and then we'll get into the landscape,
uh, bidding probably late next year, uh, calendar late 2027.
And then, uh, certainly our North Parkway retail corridor,
uh, North Huntsville Village, good news to the city council we closed last
Friday, uh, took all day, but we got closed with Target and her developer,
so we got our money back for the and the project is a green light.
I texted Ms.
Watkins and said congratulations, there's no turning back now.
So, uh, that, that's the critical point when you can transfer that property
you have a project, um.
And then the University Drive and South Parkway corridors we continue to
work with, you know, public-private partnerships if someone wants to acquire
property and see it redeveloped or or greenfield sites along those corridors,
there's money in this plan for, uh, the future leaders that,
uh, have ultimate confidence in and Jim McGuffy and Zach McGovern to,
to carry out, uh.
There's funds in here for them to have success.
We want, we want this city to continue to move forward.
And then Governors Drive West as, as we see that Mill Creek redevelop.
There's a lot of opportunities, been a lot of good through there.
You look at Stove House and some of the things,
but then the south side of Governors on the west side of,
of that corridor has great potential.
What happens to a new possible post office,
but we have put plans in there for that.
Uh, economic development efforts.
Eli Lilly, of course, largest investment in the state,
will kick off next year.
Uh, it'll take about 5 years to complete.
Cummings Research Park.
We can continue to see growth there but also needs.
So this plan has needs to keep the park in,
in what it's known for is, is one of the best research parks in the nation.
We have to reinvest in that.
Uh, our VBC expansion, uh, you, you, uh, were very gracious to approve that
TIFF district and.
We'll get started with that next year.
North and West Huntsville Industrial Development,
uh, there are plans to continue to grow the North Huntsville Industrial,
uh, Development Park.
It's, uh, not.
Quite full but it is near there we we've have plans that uh could allow
us to add new acreage to that uh to bring a new industrial park offerings.
One of the things that we are lacking if you look at Chase Industrial Park,
North Huntsville Industrial Park, and some others.
Um, they're pretty much full.
We've had good success, so I know our team is looking at how do we go create
some new industrial parks, and we think that it will be north and will be
west, and, and we're really looking at that.
But this plan can help handle moving that forward.
Uh, County Line, uh, Road retail corridor,

[02:45:00]
Food City is, is under construction finally and going really well at the
corner of at the corner of 020 and County Line Road.
Uh, but there's conversation going what phase two looks like along that
corridor and having good conversations certainly with the school kicking
off exit 3 on the south side.
We had a good town hall meeting last night.
There's more retail opportunity coming to that,
that part of the city.
Uh, Swancott Road residential and commercial development,
uh, is really picking up, uh, some steam out there.
Uh, we've put, you know, 16,000 jobs at that exit,
and, and naturally with the school coming.
Um, it's, it's important for us to make the investment.
I think that's what the TIFF is for, but we'll also help people commuting,
you know, if, if we can move citizens to the area they work and not travel
20 miles and you, you can move 5000 people off I-565 and give them a better
where they're trying to go anyway, uh, it helps us if we live in South Huntsville
or North Huntsville or east side of the city or downtown so those investments
you are making out there will actually help our transportation network.
And then Jet Pluck Industrials Park working in Barbie Peak and.
I got a dear friend that announced his retirement at the airport and sent
him a text.
I think Amy will do a great job leading our airport,
but working with them to see what that Swancott Boeing Road area looks like
and being able to create, uh, future jobs.
After that I'll answer any questions.
Council members, what questions do you have?
Yes, Mr.
Kling.
You brought up the ring road.
When you think all the components, the arsenal connector,
everything that's going on north bypass or.
It's a good question.
So you know we will start next year on phase two,
the Northern bypass, which will get us to Winchester Road.
So you have that Buckhorn area.
I know it's in the county, but that area puts a lot of pressure on Highway
72 at Mooresville Road, 9-565.
Getting that piece connected will give residents both in the city and the
county in the north northeastern portion an alternate route to work to still
get to the west side of the city.
I think that will make a huge, huge impact.
There'll be one more phase of that.
It's in here, gets you to Highway 72.
The East Arsenal Connector is a piece that will actually help,
uh, Research Park Boulevard and that main gate into the arsenal.
It gives actually Space Command and some others a different access into
the arsenal.
But if you go look at all that, um, in the next 10 years,
I think everything would be complete.
Uh, eastern bypass working with the county to US Highway 72 East.
The only missing piece would be, uh, thread the needle really through the
southern portion of the city, and that will be very challenging.
It will be very expensive.
We have preserved a corridor, but most of that will have to be elevated
and, and some cooperation through the arsenal.
We continue to have that through our NPO.
Everybody is in agreement to that alignment.
We've been able to preserve the right of way for that.
Uh, but that would need that section will need more help than what this
capital plan could support, and, and we do that through the NPO and hopefully
some through some federal help, and I think separate from that,
uh, there's already some preliminary engineering work going on for the design
for 565 at Parkway.
Interchange expansion.
Yes, so about, about 3 years ago, uh, we,
this council approved a contract.
It was a couple of million dollars.
Uh, so Ms.
Martin and I led, uh, some outside consultants with 3 alternates,
uh, of what that project should look like and sat down with Mark Bartlett
of Federal Highway Authority and Aldo and,
and went through multiple iterations and we got it down to 2.
And that accelerated the project in our minds,
uh, because that is the first piece and there was no federal funding for
it probably accelerated the project by decade uh so now uh federal highway
has a route that that they prefer, you know,
of how the new exits would look and and where they would connect into downtown
and where they start.
So we've given them now a road map to actually start design so it was money
well spent by this, this body to, to accelerate that on behalf of Valdot
and Federal Highway.
So, uh, I do know recent conversations with Director Cooper with Mayor Battle,
he has made a commitment to start the design of that.
Uh, I know Ms.
Martin, our city engineer, has, has had some follow-up meetings with Mark
Bartlett and.
Leadership at ADO of how they kick that off.
What's the scope of work start to look like.
But the good thing is, is by you allowing us a couple of years ago to get
ahead of that and provide them a road map,
now they have something to actually go design off of.
So, so we've really accelerated that by spending a couple million dollars
of our money.
It's affecting our city, but I think that was money well spent.
And what's the next next step then beyond that design we need to get federal
and state funding federal funding, but, but the good news is,
is once Federal Highway NAO create a project in into the national highway

[02:50:01]
system for design.
Now you have a project that is competing with all other thousands of road
projects across the US, so then appropriations into that project is easy
to do.
The first step that's really, really hard is get you listed within that
program, and we've done that.
OK, very good.
Other questions?
I, I was just gonna comment when I was looking at the list of all the projects,
whether they're happening or planned to be happening,
cover every bit of this city.
And there's not a piece of the city not growing,
yes, and, uh, I think we probably all have areas where we hear from citizens
that feel like they're the land that God forgot and obviously that's not
the case, but you know, so this is really good to see.
So much of the city working for the city,
I, I agree.
I think it's a well balanced plan, especially on transportation.
I mean, we're, we're spending money on roads in every one of your districts,
and, and it's not us trying to be balanced in your district and say and
be able to tell each of you, hey, we're spending money in your district.
These are priority projects based off traffic counts that we say this is
where the money needs to be spent.
And it, I think it shows the health of each of your districts,
you know, it's not heavy to one district.
We say, well, that's where the growth's at,
or that's where the traffic's at.
It is, it is broad, and, and everybody's getting some type of improvement.
And when, when do you think they'll start building the bridge,
because I get asked that a lot, which the park bridge,
the, the, uh, pin, the one that goes sky bridge.
So that piece will bid, uh, probably late spring or early summer,
uh, and then.
The way that cable span bridge will work is once we award you,
we'll award that to a contractor.
The first thing is it will actually, a lot of it will be constructed off-site.
So it will probably be a year after you award the contract before you'll
see pieces start to arrive and, and there's a reason behind that.
Once a cable spin bridge, and that's the way you would design those,
uh, you kind of link and log them together once they get here.
But two is be minimum impact to Governor's Drive in US in Memorial Parkway.
Uh, so really before I think you're probably 1 year to say 18 months to
a year, maybe 18 months maybe really on when say a year from now,
uh.
I think you'll start seeing foundations go up and you can kind of see where
it's going across, but then we'll wait for the actual bridge builder to
deliver those parts.
So 2 years, yeah, absolutely within 2 years you'll,
you'll start seeing that skyline, uh, start to appear.
Yeah Anybody else?
All right, Mr.
Davis, um, your last 2014 presentation, thank you so much for,
for the work you did on this, and we look forward to.
Uh, having you come to the next meeting.
Yes, ma'am, thank you.
Thank you.
The next item and last item is the presentation of the proposed fiscal year
2027 update to the 1990 capital improvement plan by the administration followed
by increased discussions and input by council with the mayor and administration
officials, Mr.
Hamilton.
Mm This is a PDF.
Do you know how to go to, hey, do you know how to go to slideshow on a PDF?
work There we go.
OK, there we go.
Thanks.
Old guy having technology problems.
Uh, council members, uh, what's before you is the 1990 Capital Improvement
plan, uh, for fiscal years 27 to 1936.
Obviously, the focus is on the near term years as you're accustomed to.
So, uh, this is funded primarily by sales and use tax revenue.
It's a, uh, it's 18% of the 3.5% sales tax.
So as you know, full sales tax is 4.5%.
11 of those percentages of what you just heard about.
The other 3.5% is split a number of different ways and 18% of it comes into.
Uh, to this fund there's also a number of other funding sources,
gas taxes, uh, transfers from other funds,
uh, as well as some leases and things like that.
So it's a wide variety of other little funding sources that make up the
rest of it.
So right now we're modeling a total revenue of 55.4 million in,
uh, in this account.
See projects this year at, uh, $95 million.
Uh, a big chunk of that is, uh, is debt, uh,
related projects, and we have a net debt service this year of $5.5 million.
So a beginning balance of 1.3 million, but an ending balance of 3.3.
So where, where does that money go?
So this, uh, this fund, uh, the biggest and primary thing that it does is
maintenance and sustainment of our departments that are providing services
to the community.
So you see major infrastructure maintenance,
uh, street resurfacing is always the biggest piece of that,
but there's other, other road maintenance,
drainage maintenance, but infrastructure maintenance at all,

[02:55:02]
uh, that go into that, that infrastructure maintenance primarily executed
by public works, but not all of it.
Uh, some of that also gets transferred over to,
uh, to the engineering department.
They have some, uh, some functions that are,
that are actually funded out of this, uh,
out of this fund.
We also do fleet capital at 12.5 million.
One of the things you'll see when you look at the capital plan,
that is the, we have one big fleet capital account that we do most of the
fleet sustainment with.
One of the issues that we have had is kind of the uniqueness both in expense
and the manner in which we acquire fire apparatus.
And so while not in 27, you'll notice starting in 28 and beyond.
Uh, I've actually modeled in a separate line specifically for fire apparatus.
That's, uh, that's an area that we've been particularly challenged in and
we're finally getting to a place where we can focus on that.
Uh, and so, uh, and because of the order length time they're actually dropping
orders today or right now that won't be filled for several years and so
those that funding in the out years lines up just fine with the acquisition
timelines associated with fiber repres so it's not a problem that there's
no money in 27 specifically for that.
It picks up in 28 and we'll be, we'll be in good shape.
You also see significant investment in parks and rec facility improvements.
Some, uh, public safety facility improvements and then also I always highlight
the council improvement funds, uh, that are consistent with prior year funding.
So what are some of those major projects right now already under construction,
so, uh, for the most part you won't see these in the updated plan because
they're actually have already started and they're,
they're funded from prior years.
So, uh, a number of projects down in John Hunt Park,
uh, another, a number of other places, of course,
a big one happening right outside this window over here,
uh, but those are things that are under construction right now that are
funded out of the 90 capital plan.
Some things that we have in design and I would tell you this list is not
intended to be all inclusive.
I've tried to capture just kind of the larger,
the larger things that are in the plan, but in design right now is renovation
of the shower center, the Goldsmith Shipman Stadium,
the depot park, as well as a storage facility for public works,
and that that's, you know, one that.
You know, it's not necessarily as much fun as building a park or a greenway
or things, but one of the issues that Polo Corks has had is their ability
to acquire and store sufficient materials for significant winter weather
storms because of lack of storage space.
We've been basically buying salt in bags,
which is about the least efficient way to do it.
Uh, it's much better to be able to store that in bulk and so that storage
building, while it'll do a number of things for them,
the biggest is actually providing storage capacity to begin getting those
materials in bulk, less expensive and, uh,
in larger quantity so we can be prepared to deal with,
uh, with winter weather.
And then some other upcoming things that are in uh in the near term but
uh out years in the plan, uh, we've talked about replacement of a number
of fire stations, uh, also getting a, a building for the South precinct
and and quite a few, uh, park repairs and improvements and things.
One of the things this, this fund, uh, primarily does what we would kind
of classify as our quality of life infrastructure and of course a lot of
that is the facilities that Parks and Recreation manages for us.
Um, you know, if you spend backwards a few years ago,
we all really kind of admitted ourselves that we were behind in just total
capacity of those kinds of facilities and so we worked pretty aggressively
in this plan to get lots of new facilities built to meet growth and that
will continue, uh, but we would in our assessment we've largely caught up
to that that deficit we still have work to do,
so I'm not saying we're all the way there,
but in terms of the pace at which we've needed to add new capacity we've.
We're doing much, much better, but it's also important that we not forget
the stuff that was already there and properly maintained and we have a lot
of facilities that are now at an age that needs some sort of repairs or
renovations.
When you look at the details in the plan,
there's a whole laundry list of park facilities where our park inspectors
have gone out and identified.
In some cases fairly minor things, but important.
In other cases a little bit more larger scale that need to be done just
to fix, repair, improve some of our existing parks.
And so you'll see a laundry list of parks that have some funding that's
scaled based on what the parks and rec directors identified as indeed in
those parks, and they're all over the city.
Uh, so we'll continue to do that.
So it's, it's a, you're seeing just a little bit of shift of,
uh, being able to refocus a little bit more resources on maintaining what
we already have versus, uh, building new stuff.
That doesn't mean we go to zero on building new stuff.
It's just we've kind of, we've largely caught up.
But there's, uh, like I said, there's a few places where we need to continue
to do that.
And I'll be happy to address any questions that you have.
Questions for Mr.
Hamilton.
Uh, we've had a lot of interest lately in the library.
It would appear in 2031 we have 35 million set aside for the library,
and we do.
And so, um, one of the things that, uh, is really kind of a question mark
that's hanging out there that, uh, that we need some others to help figure
out is really kind of what.

[03:00:00]
The county is doing with rebuild of the courthouse and you say how does
the rebuild of the courthouse rebuild of the courthouse tie to the library?
Well, we have offered to help them with some temporary facilities,
uh, to, to facilitate their move uh once we understand their timing and
what they're doing, we think some of those facilities may actually help
our situation at the library so.
I'm in a little bit of a holding pattern while the county goes through their
decision making process and once we understand those timelines better I'll
be able to come back to you and and to the library board with a little more
detailed concept for how we think we might address the the issues here downtown.
I did put a plug out there in the out years uh to build a new branch downtown,
but one of the one of the issues we have with the downtown library branches,
it's more than a library branch, it's also the central offices and archives
and other things that are really countywide facilities they are.
Necessarily Huntsville's downtown library branch,
uh, and so you know how we deal with those two different components of one
building may there may be a better strategy and something a little bit more
affordable than what, uh, than some of the options we've previously been
presented.
So on that one, yes, I think we all agree that that we've got to improve
that situation, but we.
Need just a little bit more time so we can understand some of the other
dynamics downtown and then come back to you with a good plan for how to
deal with it.
But I think the important part is that there is a placeholder there for
that 35 million for the library.
And then with regard to HBD precinct construction,
we have 200,000 in 27, 3.5 in 28, 2.3.
29 is that the south precinct?
It is so it will be spread out over those.
We're looking at a three year project.
What I've done there is one is, you know,
we've kind of gotten, you know, obviously a lot of those types of things,
uh, we've funded with debt out of this plan in this particular case we're
in a position where I think some of those kinds of projects we can fund
with cash, which is better anytime we can do it with cash instead of debt
we're in a better position.
The way you see it lined up spread over 3 years really aligns with the duration
of the of the project.
So that first, uh, little batch of money is just to pay for design and uh
we already own the land.
So now it's just a matter of designing the building and then the,
the way that construction project will line up,
it'll go over multiple fiscal years and so I can align the funding over
multiple fiscal years.
Thank you and um was glad to see that there's allocations both for renovations
at Buchanan Park and Willow Park.
Both of those are much needed.
Uh, thank you for that.
Anybody else, Mr.
Clay.
I appreciate what you're doing with the library and it shows you're right,
it's a good placeholders.
Either work with the library.
Little small appropriation.
Building to kind of keep it up water fountain.
Water not working, you know, small, small stuff like that,
but if it's gonna be that, it's gonna be there for a couple of years.
I think it looks better You know, keep water O We,
we can and we have, you know, for example,
in, in some of the dialogue at a recent council meeting there was an issue
related to the flooring they're on the first floor and we actually funded
that, that repair, uh, they had not at the time they came and spoke to you
they weren't anticipating that, but we'd actually had some money set aside
in this capital.
Capital plan for maintenance, uh, at the facility and so we were able to
fund that that floor repair.
So there's other kind of those, those kind of small examples why they may
not be a huge dollar amount they are important to the public and so yeah,
we'll continue to engage with them and find opportunities to do that kind
of stuff so.
Heard from people, This meeting About seeing what we can do with fire station
number 3 either.
It's a location and the neighborhood, you know,
it's surrounded, it's surrounded by neighborhoods in that area.
I think if you look at the number of calls that they get.
Might be putting themselves too thin between Drake Avenue and Clinton Avenue.
And if there is going to be a new building built someday,
could it just be at that location versus going elsewhere?
We, we'll, we'll bring a layout for for those new stations to council,
you know, the there, there is no fire station that operates in isolation.
They are all interconnected to each other based on their zones,
uh, and so, uh, what, uh, you know, the situation.
We actually have at station 3 is that it's zone right now where it's position
is wholly redundant to surrounding stations and so uh we've,
you know, we've discussed for for a number of years that it needs to be
repositioned a little bit further north of Jordan Lane to to better position
it relative to other stations and so we'll come and lay all that out for
you we're not gonna leave any part uh of that of the city there uh in a
gap in fact I would say.
Much of its response zone will remain the same,
not 100%, but a large portion will.
It just needs to tie in better to where the other stations are,
uh, and so that we have our, our resources positioned a little bit better.
But, uh, the, the, the neighborhood and I've talked to citizens down there,
uh, as well, uh, and, and we, we will make sure that,
uh, they have a fire station as well within the response zone required to,
to make sure their needs are cared for.

[03:05:03]
Questions or comments?
All right, that our two hour meeting became a 3 hour meeting,
but we've gone through a lot of information and again action will be taken
at the September 24th meeting, um.
We appreciate all the presentations that have been made.
And thank everyone for their patience as we went through them.
So we are adjourned.
