[00:00:57]
All right, friends, it is 10 o'clock and this session of the,
this work session of the council is convened.
All council members are present, and the purpose of our meeting today,
we have one agenda item and that is to solicit input from council members.
I Solicit input from council members, um,
regarding their thoughts on the budget.
Um, so we will just go ahead and, um, who wants to kick it off?
David.
OK, go for it.
David, what are your thoughts on the budget?
Do you have any input you would like to share with the finance department?
Yeah, I'm just curious, uh, how we're feeling going towards the end of the
fiscal year.
Even Flush underwater.
So I want, I want to buy 4 helicopters for our police department financial
outlook, um, so, um, so I wasn't planning on speaking today.
In general, um, for the 26th budget as far as where we are,
but the actuals, we are, we are on, we're,
we're in a, in, in, we are fine as far as the financially is concerned,
um, we are on budget, um, but we are not,
you know.
Way ahead of budget, um, obviously revenue got,
got reduced, um, at the last mid-year, um,
when we did the mid-year revisions.
I have not done any forecasting for the revenue to finish out,
you know, for the 27.
I was waiting until we kind of got through a few,
one more month, um, to get there, but, um,
but we will, we will be working on that soon.
But in general I would say, you know, we're.
OK, but we're not seeing any revenue, any large revenue growth.
OK, that's, that's sufficient.
Thank you, Ms.
Smith, while we have you there, go ahead and finish.
Oh yeah, well, I was just gonna talk about my few items on the wish list,
um.
Let me, let me ask then, so when you mentioned the midyear budget correction,
um, and that was because of a shortfall in our sales tax.
Is that largely no, that was largely due to,
um, the pilot reduction that we had.
So, um, so we had it, it got offset by, um,
property taxes increasing, um, so, um, so that that helped.
Um, but, um, we are still working on the pilots with,
with Huntsville Utilities, but, um, and working through the,
the questions and the reasons and what's behind that.
But, um, but yes, you know, in general it's still,
you know, it all kinds of kind of tends to go back to that even,
you know, we're kind of even across the board.
OK, thank you.
All right, Mr.
Little, continue your thoughts.
Yeah, my, my thoughts are pretty general and quality of life focused,
um.
And maybe, uh, Shane can answer this question.
The California Street Park, I know has been on a list for a while,
um, to get a facelift, maybe some pickleball courts,
but it's my understanding that there's some shared property with the school
over there, so it's not real clear yet what we can do.
So I just would like to know that that's still on somebody's radar for when
the new school's in and everything that we might be able to,
because I get asked about California Street Park.
I'm sure Mr.
Clean does too, because it's right, you know,
right across the street from me.
Just wanna make sure that's still, you know,
something in the works.
Might be a few years, but yeah, so, you know,
in, in our help with the tip that you approved last night,
there's some funding to help the schools,
uh, with, with New Huntsville Middle, and through that conversation we've
been having conversations with the school system of once we get the school
built under construction.
Working with them with a master plan for California Park and and how it
would benefit the public and what the program would be.
So I think next year and a half that they've just bid the school they're
getting ready to to break ground, you know.
I think once they get a year into that, I know Jon Hamilton has been intimately

[00:05:03]
involved with that.
I think you'll see some.
Visioning sessions of of what that that will become,
but it's definitely in the in the future forecast for making improvements
to that part.
That's great, um, yes sir, turn on your mic,
Mr.
Clay, uh, different times when I am over in the park just about every time
I'm there I've noticed that people are actually using the tennis courts
to play pickleball on.
So, uh, there's some improvisation taking place,
but, uh, I think that definitely would be a good place.
Uh, and your folks, landscape management,
somebody, uh, on a frequent basis, I've noticed people over there trimming,
cutting the grass, trimming the branches and everything.
So, uh, we'd like to see new things like,
uh, Mr.
Little said, but at this point it has not been neglected.
It's still being well maintained.
That's correct, yeah, it's still a public park and we maintain all our parks.
so it should be in landscape management's annual,
uh, monthly maintenance, so.
Program, but, but yes, they're, they're.
Uh, good things coming in the future for that part for sure.
All righty.
And then the other, uh, something else I wanted to mention was the walking
path around the pond down at Jones Valley Park,
like by Lyndon and the, and the greenway.
Apparently about a portion of it is paved and a portion of it is gravel.
And so, um, it's my understanding that might just be more of a budgetary
issue to get the whole thing paved.
I don't know, but I'd like to, you know, see if that's a possibility down
the road.
There's a, there's some older neighbors that live there that I've heard
from, so, you know, about half their walks pretty straightforward and the
rest on an uneven pavement.
And I've talked to Chris and they'll get out and smooth the gravel and make
it better.
But if it's possible to pave that entire walking path,
I can take care of that today with engineering.
It, it shouldn't be something we have to go put in the budget.
I know.
Uh, the commercial there along, uh, Carl T.
Jones, there was an extension of that greenway to get up to the sidewalk
area.
It may be that area.
I know there were some, um, delineation of some city work,
some private developer work there, and then you've had the development on
4 mile posts we put in the new bridge to get.
You know, to, to that area, just let me get engineering to go look at that,
uh, but they would be funds through our greenway maintenance to,
to get that taken care of now.
OK, great.
Yeah, thank you.
I'll let the folks I heard from recently know that.
Yeah, we, we can take care of that pretty easily.
Thank you.
The rest, uh, Madam President, is just, uh,
make sure our public safety stays fully funded and road budget stays fully
funded.
So pretty, you know, straightforward.
Thanks, uh, Mr.
Davis, and thank you, Madam President.
Thank you, um, Ms.
Watkins, we'll just finish up on this side.
Yes, so.
As we're moving forward in this budget process,
the things that I want are things that will enhance and improve the life
of the residents in District One.
So I am requesting funding consideration for the refurbishment and revitalization
of Cary Hills, Stonyfield, and Lakewood.
These parks have served our.
Community for several um generations and throughout the generations they've
declined a little bit so I would like to see those um athletic fields upgraded,
uh, improving the field houses and creating a fresh and warm welcoming environment
that reflects the pride and values of our neighborhoods.
Cover heels.
Lakewood and Stonyfield.
And I'll make this comment about Stoner Field.
I wish James Gossett was here.
I think, um, Lakewood has been on the decline with the fields and the field
house.
So if that is the case and now they're more so over at the shower center
which will, you know, get a, a face lift,
then we can take that off the list.
I don't have a problem with that, but I do know that Stoner Field and Caver
Hills definitely needs upgrade.
Thank you.
Is that it, Ms.
Watkins?
Very good.
Y'all thought I was gonna come in here with a long list,
didn't you?
I, I thought this number, that was number one.
OK, very good, Mr.
Kling.
Well, I would like to stand in support with Council Member Watkins on the
northern bypass.
I think that's a great arterial.
I know it's getting underway.
Anyway, that can be accelerated.
The sooner that is done, the better.
And then I'm standing with my good friend,
uh.
Uh, Mr.
Little, when we start looking at expanding over toward Hampton Cove from
72 East, the Eastern bypass and coming around,
and then I'm best buddies with council member,
council president, uh, Robinson on the, uh,
East Arsenal connector.
The, uh, ring road around the city, I think is very important for the people
of my district because this all the stop and go traffic that creates congestion,

[00:10:02]
but I think it's good for, uh, the city.
I know we have a plan for those if there's,
uh, any windfall that comes from the state or the federal government,
uh, those would be the projects I'd like to see,
um, accelerated and of course the, uh, parkway at 565 interchange,
very important again, we're talking about traffic flow for the city,
which is good for the district and also good for everybody else's district.
Uh, on a park basis, uh, there are just a couple of parks where.
Uh, trying to get grass seed to grow.
Uh, we had to go, uh, a couple of times around to get Hastings Park and
the, and the grass seed, grasss grew and it's doing very well.
Uh, Archer Park.
And Westlawn Parks both have large bare dirt areas.
And again, whatever can be done, whether it's sod or whether it's a good
durable grass seed, in fact, grass seed is what worked at Hastings Park,
but just make a concentrated effort to, to see what can be done within those
neighborhood parks.
Uh, also, there's been great progress and if there's a way we can continue
to accelerate, uh, residential street sweeping,
if landscape management, the administration feels that more equipment's
needed, uh, I think that would certainly be money well spent.
Uh, Trina Boulevard, uh, we are seeing, um,
a lot of interest in having a crosswalk put.
Uh, at Fantasy Playhouse, uh, possibly that may actually happen in this
fiscal year.
If not, uh, given the amount of young children in traffic,
that would certainly be a very, uh, worthwhile project to have place in
the upcoming, uh, fiscal year budget.
Uh, everybody on the council, I think, would agree the council-directed
projects process has been working well.
Uh, everyone brings their ideas to the table.
They're reaffirmed by everybody on the council,
and I think, uh, there's a lot of mutual respect out of the ideas that an
individual council member brings for his or her district.
So, uh, I would certainly like to see that continue.
Uh, I would echo what I think, uh, Councilman Little said.
We want to make sure our police and fire,
uh, manpower are what they need to be, as well as,
uh, community development inspectors.
As we're growing outward, we're, you know,
may have certain needs that need to be expanding.
Um, the fire department ISO ranking is very good despite our large land
areas.
So that's credit to them.
Uh, police department crime statistics are very good,
uh, according to the FBI for a city our size.
And if you think of Birmingham as having a lesser population than we have,
uh, their, uh, uh, crime statistics are very,
very poor.
So I appreciate, uh, the good job that's done by those departments.
And I guess in a way, I'm saying I want to support and do whatever is needed.
Uh, I know from time to time we've had people talk to us about the,
uh, the Huntsville library situation downtown.
Uh, looking around and what I found out, it's not really put out or people
don't really talk that much about it, but,
uh, there's a new library that the city helped put in North Huntsville.
There's a new library the city, uh, participated in for South Huntsville.
Uh, the, um, library downtown certainly could use,
uh.
Something done to it.
uh, I think it's, uh, poor management on their part that we have things
like, uh, water fountains that aren't working and,
uh, uh, I know we had employees talking about their salary levels.
Uh, I don't know all the ins and outs of that.
I do know that historically we have provided the library with the largest
appropriation that we've made to any outside agency.
Uh, I guess the bottom line is that I haven't heard anything from the library,
and I think we need to hear from the library and the board as far as what,
uh, what they're planning or what their preferences are.
I mean, I don't know if they wanna renovate the existing building.
Uh, do they wanna build a new library building at that same location?
Do they wanna build a new library building at a different location?
And, uh, what is going to happen to keep the library operating,
uh, while construction is going on, whether it's a new library,
or whether it's just renovation within the,
um, the existing library.
So, uh, bottom line is I think we just need to be.
Kind of receptive to them, but, uh, instead of us trying to ram something
down their throat, we need to find out what,
what the director and what the library board want to do.
And, uh, you know, we could certainly, uh,
look at, at being supportive and, and helping them.
Uh, one other thing, uh, road resurfacing,
I think we all like road resurfacing.
I love road resurfacing.
Uh, I think there needs to be better management between the resurfacing
and the contract and the, uh, concrete that's put down.
Uh, in the district I represent, and I think I've heard from other districts
too, there's a long waiting period where streets are torn up,
they're milled, uh, the concrete, uh, curbing that needs to be put in is

[00:15:03]
put in, new sidewalk, um, new aprons are put in some cases even sidewalks,
and while we're doing that, uh.
And that's finally getting done.
Then there are in some cases months of waiting where the streets are especially
torn up and people are waiting for the asphalt to come in.
Um, and so I think in the future that needs to be better managed and also
I think we need to ride herd on these contractors a little bit better,
uh, myself and I think at least one other council member,
uh, are still waiting on FY 25, uh, road projects to be complete and,
uh.
You know, we pay and the people in the neighborhoods are having a little
bit of an extra rough time because they're,
they're driving around a torn up street that's been milled and they're waiting
for the asphalt to come, uh, so maybe we could work that a little bit better,
but certainly let's, let's keep the resurfacing at the highest levels possible.
And if there's any money left, I'll yield to the floor and let the,
let somebody else try to spend the rest of it,
but there's a lot of good things going on with our department heads,
and, uh, I think we certainly this is time just to say thanks to them for
the great job that they do every year.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
Mr.
Meredith, thank you.
Um, there's a lot going on right now in District 5,
and the largest, most solid foundation for that activity is the financial
commitment of this administration.
And I wanna acknowledge that I, I know sometimes folks think I don't get
along with our mayor, but um I do.
I like him, I support him.
I think his, his vision for the city is a good one.
Having the luxury of being a ground floor participant in the city's updated
master plan for the West, I am confident that the city will continue to
financially support District 5 to the fullest in fiscal year 27.
Consequently, my asks for the districts are simple and minimalistic.
First and foremost is something that comes up pretty much every time we
get to this point in our, our.
Our fiscal year is sidewalks and sidewalks on Balch Road,
sidewalks on old railroad bed, and now sidewalks on Zert Road south of from
Martin Road to Barn Fork Road specifically to facilitate the patronage,
um, to the new rec center there at Martin and Zert,
um.
The other things I'm gonna mention specific to District 5 are things that
are probably already being accounted for in the administration,
um, but because of the topic of this work session I'm gonna mention them,
and that is the pavilion in the, uh, Fanning Reserve Preserve rather,
uh, on old Jim Williams Road, um, I think.
That that is something that Mr.
Hamilton is working in conjunction with uh the Madison County commission
specifically uh Commissioner Haraway, um,
the monument sign for the rec center, um.
The, the West Huntsville Rec Center.
Um, it's, um, a little bit confusing to those that aren't regulars there,
how to get in.
Because it looks like the driveway is in front of the building when in fact
it is several meters away, um, and there are folks that try to make a premature
left that, um, frankly can be putting themselves in danger of being hit
by some pretty fast moving traffic on Martin Road.
Um, the next is the dog park down by what used to be Cabela's,
I guess it's a Bass Pro Shop now.
And of course the infamous second entrance for the west side of Providence.
Um, there's been a lot of talk about parks,
so I'll jump in on that and the creation of some additional parks out West
would be, uh, very welcome, and I would say we don't need water,
uh, features.
Um, let's keep it.
Economical and just have grass and shade,
uh, we don't need water features that uh run up the price and frankly keep
the maintenance cost up as well.
The other things are a little bit more universal and I would like to see
additional uh monies uh allocated to the Children's advocacy Center and
the work that they do.
And then finally, um, full staffing for ladder trucks and hazmat units,
um, tentatively in discussions, um, the price point for that would be $192,000
which is not cheap, but, um, is something that,
um, is definitely needed at least, uh, well,

[00:20:01]
it's definitely needed everywhere, but when you have outlying stations that
are traveling quite a ways to respond.
Um, having, um, a full ladder truck, um, to allow them to do their primary
mission, which is, um, actually going into buildings and looking for people
and saving lives as opposed to standing outside and,
and fighting the fire would be helpful.
And that is all I have, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
Uh, so I would like to just revisit a couple of things.
One is the library.
We've had people coming and talking particularly about races for the library.
Mayor Battle, do you, we don't pay salaries for the library.
I think our allocation is capital, uh, books,
uh, we, we also provides, it's just a.
It's everything.
It's a direct allocation and the and the library board,
uh, along with the administration of the library determines on how they're
gonna spend their money, OK, and I, I think I have also understood that
the library employees are, are, that's a county.
For some reason I had thought they were, they were worked with the county
on that, but at any rate, we do an allocation and again it comes back to
the library board for, um.
How, uh, salaries and then as Mister, um,
Kling also alluded to earlier, uh, decisions regarding the building,
how it will be rebuilt, where it will be rebuilt,
that is a library, um, concern.
Ms.
Smith, um, just real quick if I can just clarify,
and I believe what you've already said is that all of the buildings,
um, for libraries are owned and, um, by the city of Huntsville.
We, um, the operations of what happens inside the library is turned over
to the boards.
Um, our library system is a, is a fully Madison County and so,
so they operate, we're both within the city they operate libraries in the
city of Madison.
In the county and in the city of Huntsville,
um, and so that is their responsibility kind of wide and,
um, and so but all of their funding for what happens in the city of Huntsville,
they segregate their libraries and the way that they operate and their operational
costs and so we pay for all of that they do get some funding from the state
they do get funding from the county.
And then obviously the ones that are operated in the city of Madison are
um are that that is fully separate from from what we do as well.
So again, just to make it, make it clear,
we have, we have heard the request for increase in salaries,
but that is a library board decision and we continue to make our allocation
and I believe our allocation to the library is one of the largest we make.
To any outside agency, isn't it?
It is a larger allocation, um, and, um, and,
uh, and so we can, we can put forth to y'all kind of what we've allocated
to them over the past few years.
Thank you, um, and we certainly value the library.
It is a city service and so I, I don't have a problem at all with us making
that large allocation.
But again, everything is under the control of the,
um, of the library board.
And then, um, echo also what Mr.
uh, Little said regarding public safety, both police and fire,
uh, I know we are continuing to have challenges filling positions,
but so both police and fire are fully funded,
as I understand with staffing.
We just need to recruit and get people into those positions.
Is that correct?
OK.
Uh, and Green Mountain Fire truck, thank you very much for the,
uh, fleet is going to be, um, between the private donations from the Green
Mountain folks, um, and the, the city allocations from,
from Fleet, we're going to get that fire truck up there on Green Mountain
and support that.
Paving has, I, I don't know, it's in the last 10 years,
I think it has doubled, but I, we are probably have reached capacity because
it sounds like we're having a hard time.
I think from the 2025 last paving, we're having trouble catching up with
those, but the bid process has changed a little bit to make other bidders,
um, or other contractors come in and kind of fill that void.
Is that right, Shane?
So if we can just continue to.
Fund it and then make sure that the work gets done.
That's the, I think that's the challenge that Mr,
um, Little mentioned earlier.
We also have built a lot of new parks.
We have a lot of new areas to maintain.
I want to make sure that parks and landscape both have the funding they
need to maintain what we have because it's,
it's great to have the parks, but if they're not cut.
And, um, landscaped appropriately.

[00:25:00]
It's not a good reflection on the city and they have been beautifully done.
I'm just, I just want to make sure we haven't outrun our headlights on that
one.
So funding for parks and landscape to maintain the parks we have would be,
um, wonderful.
Uh, the 565 interchange, we have very little,
um, that's not about funding with us.
That's, that's finding funding from state and federal,
and I know we are working on that, but that becomes more and more crucial.
Every day.
The Starsal connector will help take some of the load off of 565 and I'm
encouraged to see we've started that first piece of it.
Again, that's mostly LLDOT money that we're using there,
so we need to consider that.
And I actually joined Mr.
Kling on his comments about street sweepers.
Um, I have seen street sweepers.
Now, it used to be we just did the main, uh,
connector roads.
Now they're, they're in the residential streets regularly and it has made
a significant difference.
So I'm grateful that we have those new street sweepers and that they are
being used regularly.
So really my, my thoughts are just, can we keep on keeping on and make and.
Just continue to do the good work.
Make sure public safety has the funds that they need,
both for personnel and for fleet and, um,
capital.
Looking forward to the South precinct, the new South precinct on,
um, the Parkway.
We've acquired the land and at some point that will be in the capital plan,
and we would like to see that move forward,
uh, both for them and for the neighborhood.
And that's all I have.
Anybody else have any other comments, I do.
When you mention street sweepers, it triggered some for me.
I do want to see if we can get a street sweeper more often in District one
because of all of the um traffic that comes from the two quarries and the
asphalt.
We constantly have rocks.
The ground at the intersection of Springfield and Pulaski and Stringfield
I mean Winchester and Pulaski and Maston Lake and um Pulaski and it's every
day I'll bet it creates a mess it does and then I was told that those rocks
sometimes can get embedded in the road and that's what causes your.
Um, potholes and we just got those streets paved,
so I wanna make sure that we're able to maintain them,
but we definitely need the street sweeper in District one.
I do wanna give kudos to Vulcan because they street sweep every day,
but the problem is they don't come down on that end and it's some of it's
not their responsibility because they have two contractors on their property,
so we just wanna try to keep those roads upgraded and up to date.
As well as I'm, I'm hopeful that we can get fire stations in the budget
as well.
It's a couple of fire stations in the city that really need to be replaced.
Thank you.
Any other thoughts, Mr.
May I'll chime in District 5s.
I've never seen a street sweeper in District 5 anywhere,
um, and frankly if we can get a park you can keep the street sweeper,
so thank you.
Any other thoughts?
Um, well, if we have Mayor Battle, do you want to chime in?
Any thoughts?
Uh, uh, you know, and I wanna thank the council for,
uh, taking the time out to go through these items,
and these, these are great items.
Many of them are already, you know, already in the budget.
Many of them are gonna be items that, uh,
that we'll be working on.
Uh, we have had several groups come to us for capital needs,
uh, and very significant capital needs.
Uh, which have to work within the 10 year capital plan and,
uh, you know, I think everybody needs to recognize that if,
you know, if they come to us with a plan right now,
uh, whether it's for the library or whether it's for early works or whether
it's for, uh, um, you know, uh, uh, the land trust or whoever,
you know, it, it's gotta work within a capital plan and usually it starts
off in year 10 and close slowly but surely it comes,
come to fruition because it gives us time to.
Um, uh, to stagger our payments and make sure that,
you know, we, we do it within a budgetary,
uh, responsible way.
So, um, uh, you know, with the capital plans are,
are being pushed, you'll, I think each of y'all will probably have some
meetings or have had some meetings with some different groups.
Uh, and, um, that that's, that's something that we'll have to fit into the
capital plans, uh, a lot of this is, is, um,
is products that are already in works or,
um, or we're working for, and, you know, we wanna thank you for,
you know, reiterating these to make sure that we're on the right track and,
um, we'll, we'll continue to work with you and.
Hopefully the budget will reflect what you need out of these.
We, we really appreciate the very collaborative nature of the relationship
between the administration and the council,

[00:30:01]
uh, that is unique, uh, for a lot of municipalities,
and, uh, we thank you for the good working relationship you and your team
have with us.
So unless anybody has any other council, any other comments,
oh, Miss, Ms.
Smith.
Real quick, I know most of you brought a list.
If you could make a copy of that and send that to us,
that would be great.
I've made a lot of notes.
I know we have others that are making notes as well,
but if we have it directly from y'all, then,
then we can make sure that our notes are correct.
And while we have you there, can you just review for us the September schedule
for the budget presentations?
So I don't have the dates off the top of my head,
but we will introduce the budget at the 1st September meeting.
Meeting and then there will be a work September 10th,
so September 10th, and then we will be a work session in between.
If I can interject, isn't that gonna be a special session and not a work
session?
Uh, the special session is on September 16th,
September 16th, I'm, I'm sorry, 18th, September 18th,
which is in between the dropping of it and then the second vote.
That's on that Friday, and then, and then the,
the budget would be approved on the 24th,
correct?
OK, any other questions and thoughts we are adjourned.
Thank you all for your input.
