[00:00:42]
Everyone was about to call you.
Your phone was about to blow up.
I need to put it on silent.
Thank you.
Uh, well, we all double check too.
This special session of the Huntsville City Council will be called to order.
The purpose of today's special session is to canvass the returns of the
general municipal election that was held August 25,
2026.
Let the record show that all members of the council other than Doctor Robinson
are present.
And now we have with us City Clerk Shandricka Edwards.
We're gonna begin to open the provisional ballots accepted by the board
of registrars.
All ballots will be counted by the DS 200 electronic voting counting machine.
This is the same.
Machine that's used in all precincts during the general election,
uh, City Clerk Edwards, can you explain to us the process on how we've got
to where we are with the numbers that we have that have been in general,
uh, viewing and, uh, where we go from here on the provisionals?
OK, thank you so much.
Good afternoon, council, and to all of those joining us today.
If you are unfamiliar with what's taking place,
we will be counting the provisional ballots that required further review
by the board of registrars.
There were a total of 19 provisional ballots,
and of those 19, there are 17 accepted by the board of registrars to be
included in our official results from the August 25th municipal election.
And what we will be doing is we'll pass each ballot down.
I will read the district and I will read the candidate selected,
and we'll start if you all are ready.
For District 4, Nick Frival.
District 4 will pilot.
Miss, uh, Madam Clerk, is it possible to get the district 4 numbers instead
on the screen as opposed to what we're looking at?
Thank you.
Should be scrolling.
Thank you, sir.
District 4 Nick Frival.

[00:05:16]
District 2 for city council, David Little for District 2,
Board of Education, Holly McCarty.
District 2, City Council, Thomas Cassez and Board of Education District
2, Holly McCarty.
I hate to keep interrupting.
Is it possible for the council to see the ballots before they go into the
machine?
OK, I'm watching her.
But we can certainly let the whole council look at in years past,
hasn't the council, well, we didn't have the machine up until the last one,
but the, the council got to see provisional ballots before,
didn't we, Bill?
We did, but, uh, yeah, this, I'm watching her every,
everything she said is accurate.
We can certainly pass them down to the full council without a problem I'd
I'd appreciate that.
Yeah.
Yes, please.
Thank you.
And we.
We would have the voted ballots on record as well.
Those aren't retain.
District 4 will pilot.
So District 4, Will Pyland.
District 4 Will Pyland.
District 3, City Council, Liliana Pender,
District 3, Board of Education, Payton, Redfern.
And to note we have one ballot that was split that may not be able to be
read in the machine, but we will be making note of the total.
District 3 City Council, Jon Stewart.
District 3, Board of Education, Peyton Redfern.
District 3, City Council, Liliana Pender,
District 3, Board of Education, Peyton Redfern.
District 4, City Council Bill Clean.

[00:10:23]
District 3, City Council, Jenny Robinson.
District 3, Board of Education, Robert Coach P.
Person.
City Council District 3, Liliana Pender, Board of Education District 3,
Peyton Redfern.
City Council, District 3, Liliana Pender,
Board of Education District 3, Robert Coach P.
Person, and for the record, this ballot is torn at the corner and may not
be able to be read by the machine.
City Council, District 3, Liliana Pender,
Board of Education, District 3, Robert Coach P.
Person.
Again, another ballot is torn at the corner when it was open.
Council, this is the last ballot to be read.
City Council District 2, Thomas Cassez.
District 2, Board of Education, Matt Woolsey.
OK, now your folks are going to give us an official tally.
And at this time, as they run the final ballot through,
we will close the machine to obtain the thumb drive that will give us our
official results on our election night reporting system that's before us
along with the official tape.
Can you give us an official count of the provisionals that we just did?
While they do that council, let's run through the totals to ensure that
we have the same for city council District 2,
Thomas Casella final total 2.
City council, District 2, David Little 1.
City council District 3, Jon Stewart 1.
City Council District 3, Liliana Pender, 5.
City council District 3, Jenny Robinson, 1.
City Council District 4, Bill Kle, 1.
City Council District 4, Nick Preval, 2.
City council District 4 will pilot 4.
And now for Board of Education, District 2,
Matt Woolsey 1.
Board of Education District 2, Holly McCarty,
2.
Board of Education District 3, Peyton Redfern,
4.
Board of Education District 3, Robert Coach P.
Person 3.
And for the record, there is no Board of Education District 4 because Ryan
Reynaud was declared the winner at the July 9th council meeting because
he was unopposed for the record.
Yeah, we got a total of 27, but you said there were 19 provisionals and
only 17 accepted.

[00:15:02]
If I heard correctly, when you start, 7, so there are 17 ballots and 1 may
have one race, some have 2 races, so it depends on the ballot.
Every race didn't have 2 seats.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Uh, for the benefit of the people that are in the audience and here in the
chambers, the, uh, tabulation sheets are up on the board on the wall,
and y'all are certainly welcome to inspect those.
And while they wrap up for us to get our official totals on the election
night reporting screen, the city clerk office retained all election results
and materials on file for 6 months.
Which can be seen at any 0.6 months following a runoff.
Like.
And while we wait on the system to update,
I do want to thank Madison County staff for being here with us today.
Sandra and Robin are here from the circuit clerk's office assisting us today,
and we do thank Madison County for the last two months assisting us with
our election along with Tom who is on the side.
He is IT.
He is the one that was updating the web page at night on election night
as we watch those numbers come through.
So thank you, Tom, for being here and we're waiting on him to update the
web page with our final totals.
It's like a Miss America contest, and the winner is.
And for those watching, we're just waiting on our official results.
According to the data here, we have 102,489 registered voters in Huntsville.

[00:20:03]
Only 12,989 actually voted, 12.67%. Council,
thank you so much for your patience.
We do now have our official results that I would like to read for the record.
For District 2, City council, Thomas Cassez with 34.17%,
1,604 votes.
David Little, District 2, City council, 65.83% with 3090 votes.
For Board of Education District 2, Holly McCarty,
64.86% with 3010 votes, Matt Woolsey with 35.14% and 1,631 votes.

[00:25:03]
For District 3, city council, Liliana Pender with 30.66%,
1,778 votes, Jenny Robinson, 47.9% with 2,778 votes,
Jon Stewart with 21.43%, 1,243 votes.
For District Three Board of Education, Robert Coach P.
Person, 39.77% with 2,256 votes.
Peyton Redfern for District 3 Board of Education,
60.23% with 3,416 votes.
District 4 City council, Nick Frival with 8.34%,
203 votes.
Bill Kling, City council District 4, 66.43% with 1,617 votes.
And will pilot District 4 city council with 25.23% with 614 votes.
And again, for the record, Board of Education District 4 was unopposed.
I'll turn it back over now to the council for new business items for consideration
or action.
Thank you so much, council.
Council members, I have, uh, ordinance declaring David Little,
District 2, City Council of the City of Huntsville,
Alabama.
Holly McCarty, member, District 2, Board of Education,
City of Huntsville, Alabama.
Peyton Redfern, member, District 3, Board of Education,
City of Huntsville, Alabama.
And Bill Kling, District 4 City council of the city of Huntsville,
Alabama, duly elected to their positions for a term beginning November 2,
2026.
Is there a motion motion to approve.
Motion's been made by Councilman Meredith.
Is there a second?
2nd, seconded by Council Member Little.
Discussion.
All those in favor signify by saying aye aye.
Opposed You don't oppose it.
I said aye.
00, he said he was asking for the nays when you said aye.
OK, OK.
Let, OK, and the chair votes aye.
I'm gonna take this and everybody voted in the affirmative.
Anybody correct me.
I don't want to give council Little a second chance.
OK, sorry, all right.
Council member.
I Oh, OK, sorry, Council Member Watkins.
OK, so we have council and the chair votes aye.
It makes it 4-0.
Next we have ordinance calling for a runoff election to be held on the 22nd
day of September 2026 for candidates for city council district 3.
And does that the names need to be read for the record?
Yeah, OK, Liliana Pender and Jenny Robinson.
Move to approve 2nd.
Motion was made by Council member Little,
seconded by Councilmember Meredith.
Discussion.
All those in favor signify by saying aye aye aye opposed.
There will be a runoff There's no other business to come before the council.
We're adjourned.
