[00:00:14]
We're going to start in about 30 seconds if everyone take their seats please.
Good evening everyone.
It is August 13th, 2026, 5:30 p.m. We are met in the chambers of the Huntsville
City Council in Huntsville, Alabama.
We welcome everyone who has joined us in the chambers this evening as well
as those who are joining us virtually.
We will begin our meeting as is our practice with an invocation that will
be offered by one of our Huntsville, Alabama police safety chaplains,
Chaplain Rachel Harper, and she will be followed by Pledge of Allegiance
led by council member David Little.
All who are able and wish to do so, please stand for the invocation and
the pledge.
Father, we thank you for this day and we thank you,
Father, for the many blessings that you have bestowed upon us.
We come to you with a grateful heart for what you've done for us as individuals,
but what you've also done for us as a city.
Lord, we just ask for continued blessings and favor and Father,
I ask for guidance tonight over our city council,
over our mayor, over our city attorney as they take up the business of the
city.
Lord, and I just ask Father.
That you will give them divine wisdom, and I pray protection over all.
We ask these things in your name, Lord.
Amen.
To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which
it stands, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for
all.
Thank you Chaplain Harper.
Thank you, Mr.
Little.
Council members, you have the agenda before you.
Are there any changes or additions to be made to the agenda?
Hearing none, the agenda is approved.
You also have the, the, the minutes of the regular meeting of the city council
held on July 23, 2026.
Are there any changes or corrections to be made to the minutes?
Seeing none, the, uh, the, the minutes are accepted as presented.
The mayor has no special recognitions, but council members do have several
recognitions.
6A is a resolution honoring Tony Terrell for excellence in broadcasting
and community service.
Is there a motion?
Move to approve motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate.
All opposed.
The motion carries.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to make the presentation?
Um Yes.
Mayor, you'd like to join me down?
Good evening everyone.
So I'm not sure if you all are familiar with WHRP.
We have someone we call our best girlfriend and her name is Toni Terrell.
Toni, will you join us up on the stage?
Thank you.
So What a lot of people don't know about Tony,
you've been in this area now what, 20 years,
but you've been in broadcast 42, 42 years in broadcast.
That is awesome.
But 20 years she has been right here in Tennessee Valley.
I listened to her in the morning on my way to work.
She is so nice and friendly on it her voice is just welcoming,
and when you listen to her, you just feel like,
oh, OK, I'm gonna have a good day.
So she's not on the radio and she takes vacation.
I want to call her and say, can you just encourage me a little bit,
but whereas the city council and mayor of Huntsville,
Alabama recognized Ms.
Toni Terrell for her outstanding 42 year career in radio broadcasting and
her exceptional commitment to informing, inspiring,
and serving communities across the nation,
including two decades of service in the Tennessee Valley,
whereas she began her professional career in early childhood.
Hood development.
Toni Terrell pursued her passion for broadcasting by attending the Bailey
School of Broadcasting in San Francisco, California,
graduating in 1984, earning her FCC license and launching a successful broadcasting

[00:05:02]
career that began with Metro traffic control before advancing through radio
stations in California, Colorado, Texas, and ultimately Huntsville,
Alabama, where since making Huntsville her home.
In 2006, Tony has become a trusted and familiar voice throughout the Tennessee
Valley, serving as the host of the At Work Network on WHRP for 14 years
before becoming the host of the of the popular Tony in the Morning Show
in 2021, where she continues to entertain,
inform, and encourage listeners each weekday while also hosting Saturday
Morning Classics, a program that celebrates.
Timeless music and cherished memories, whereas Tony's talent and professionalism
has earned national recognition through her work with Westwood One's Urban
Format, The Touch, her daily on more than 20 radio stations across the country,
as well as her hosting the Sunday morning inspirations and her role as co-host
of the Billboard and American Music Awards radio broadcast for Cumulus Radio
from.
Las Vegas and Los Angeles, where it's affectionately known as your best
girlfriend, Toni Terrell has consistently used her platform to serve others
by leading the annual WHRP coats and cans for Kids campaign,
providing warm coats and food to families in need.
And let me tell you, she does this every year and every year no child in
the city of Huntsville I know of does not have a coat.
And Tony does this faithfully, and we appreciate you for that and the supporting
Saint Jude Radio Fun and delivering critical information encouraging during
times of crisis including the 1989 San Francisco earthquake,
the 1992 Los Angeles civil unrest, and the devastating 2011 tornadoes that
impacted us here in.
Chess on the report of the on stock.
Whereas through her unwavering dedication to broadcasting,
community service and public outreach, Tony has become a respected leader,
trusted communicator, and compassionate advocate whose positive influence
has enriched the lives of countless residents throughout Huntsville,
the Tennessee valleys, and communities across the nation.
Now, therefore, let it be resolved that the city council.
And mayor of Huntsville, Alabama, do hereby recognize and honor Toni Terrell
for her remarkable career in broadcasting and her steadfast commitment to
community service.
The city and mayor extend their sincere appreciation for your dedication
to informing, uplifting, and serving the people of Huntsville and the Tennessee
Valley for the last 20 years.
Thank you, Tony.
to take pictures.
I I This is the best.
Hello.
Hi, everybody.
Thank you Oh.
Thank you, Ms.
Terrell.
Thank you, Ms.
Terrell, for all of your service in our community.
6B is a resolution honoring Huntsville's immigrant community.
Motion to approve.
Motion for Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Ms.
Watkins.
All in favor, please indicate I opposed.
The motion carries.
Mr.
Meredith, would you like to make the presentation?
Miss Stewart and Miss uh Jackie Shipe, if you could come down and bring
those that have been delegated to come down with you.
Hi.
Who's who's gonna translate?
You're gonna translate.
You'll need to be there and speak through that.
How are you?
Susan, why don't you come stand close by because you'll get an opportunity

[00:10:04]
to speak, so.
We're gonna do it a little bit different this time.
Since, uh, this is an immigrant resolution,
we will have a Spanish speaking translator so whereas the city council and
mayor of Huntsville, Alabama enjoy the benefits of a dynamic immigrant population
representing areas from every corner of the globe.
Considerando que el consejo municipal alcalde de Huntsville,
Alabama this fruit and de los beneficios de una poblacion immigrante dynamica
que representa regiones detos lo rincon de el mundo e.
And whereas immigrants have made significant contributions to Huntsville's
reputation as a global leader in space exploration and scientific advancement
through their work in research, engineering,
and innovation.
Considerando quelos immigrantesanrelizado contribusone significas e a la
reputacion de Hansville comoli leader gobla gobal person.
And exploration espaciial yavan scientificosmiiante sutravajoenaciones ingeneras
e innovaciones and whereas immigrants serving as doctors,
nurses, medical professionals, and support staff have been vital in establishing
Huntsville as the leading medical center for North Alabama.
Irando quelos immigrantes quesircommodores and fermerafees medicosi personal
de pollo ancido fundamentales parala estab established a Huntsville Como
el principio Centro Medico del Norte de Alabama.
And whereas immigrants have established businesses,
created jobs, worked in essential industries,
and contributed hundreds of millions of dollars each year to Huntsville's
economy.
Considerando quelos immigras and establizado negocios creados and pleos
travajo and industrias eseniales ya portado scientos de millonees de dolaescada
ao a la economia de Huntsville.
And whereas immigrants have contributed to the cultural diversity of Huntsville,
enriching the very vibrant fabric of our city,
considerrando quelos immigrantes and contribuido a la diversidad cultura
de Huntsville Enriquiciendo el viberante tejido deno estracciudad.
And whereas immigrants have served in the United States armed forces in
disproportionate numbers defending the nation with bravery and distinction,
considerrando quelos immigrantes and cervido and las Fuerzas Armada de los
estados Unidos and numeros des proportionados defendendo la nacion con la
valenciay distinction.
And whereas the city of Huntsville values its immigrant community and seeks
to promote cooperative, peaceful existence and equality for the community,
Huntsville Valora comunidad immigrante ibusca promover una conveviencia
corporativa specificae equalitaria parato la comunidad.
Now therefore be it resolved that the city council and mayor of Huntsville,
Alabama recognize and celebrate the invaluable contributions of immigrants
and encourages all residents to embrace the significant role our immigrant
community plays in strengthening and enriching our city.
Municipalde Huntsville, Alabama Recon is celebras in a.
Vallus perdon contributiones de los immigrantesy exhortan a todos lo residentes
valorarel palpel significo quela comunidad immigrantes sempena and fortaleser
enriquezer nostraciad.
Thank you very much, Susan.
I'd like for you to have the first opportunity to give your comments.
I thought I'd be making this from behind the safety of the podium later,
but here we go, um, I'm Susan Stewart.
My address is on file now.
I'm here to speak about the resolution, um,
honoring Huntsville's immigrant community.
I want to thank council member Meredith for sponsoring this resolution,
for listening to and understanding the concerns of the immigrant community
and their advocates, and thank you to the mayor and city council for stating
so clearly with this.
Resolution that Huntsville would not be what it is today were it not for
the immigrants who have chosen to make Huntsville their home today and for
hundreds of years.
I'm humbled by the people I've met during the last year,
representatives of immigrant-led organizations and individual members of
the immigrant community who are speaking out about the needs of their community

[00:15:02]
and who are taking concrete action to meet those needs and to help.
Keep their community safe.
I am grateful for my fellow advocates who have shown up here and elsewhere
with passion and a zeal for justice.
We will not forget that our city depends on the presence of contributions
of people who come from around the world,
and I promise we will not stop advocating for their constitutional rights
and their safety.
Thank you so much, council member Meredith.
Veronica Carney of Latino Hope and Advocacy has been our translator tonight
at the last minute she agreed to do this.
Thank you so much, Veronica.
Forgive, forgive my being remiss, but, uh,
Mr.
Mayor, if you would like to join us, uh, certainly for the photo op,
or please come on up and be a part of this if you would like.
And then finally, um, I'd like for Ms.
Jackie Shipe, uh, to comment, uh.
Councilman Meredith, what an honor for myself,
all who are up on the stage, and those in the audience because.
Immigrants could not have successfully integrated into the community if
it wasn't for the entire village, so we're so thankful.
I am the chief executive officer for Global Ties Alabama,
and for 61 years.
We have led the effort not only to support immigrants to resettle refugees
and to welcome international visitors, uh,
delegations that are sent by the US Department of State to this community.
And the citizen diplomats that are in this room that have supported each
of our visitors, international visitors, it has been a blessing and a true
reflection on our United States of America which is founded.
On the backs of immigrants.
There are a lot of organizations up here,
but for the sake of time we're just gonna say thank you very much for all
that you do for the immigrant community.
I know we have uh had it translated into Spanish,
but this proclamation, this resolution, uh,
is universal it is for immigrants no matter where you have come from you
find yourself in Huntsville, we want you to know that we appreciate all
of your contributions and that this is for you as well thank you.
Ma.
Thank you everyone.
We'll go on with the rest of our meeting now.
As everyone takes their seats.
6A is a resolution.
6A is a resolution honoring Colonel Erin Ikey for her leadership and service
to Redstone Arsenal and the Huntsville community.
Move to approve.
Second motion by Ms.
Watkins.
Second by Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries microphone.
Ms.
Watkins.
I actually.
Actually ask all the council members to join me with the mayor.
there.
All right, this is kind of a mayor to mayor meeting here.
Uh, Colonel Ikey has been the mayor of Redstone Arsenal for the past 3 years,
2 years, 2 years, and, uh, she is the one.
Uh, every day once everybody gets into the arsenal and gets to work,
they become the 8th, 8th largest city in the,
uh, state of Alabama, which is something to be said,
45,000 people, uh, working there.
Come on up, come on up, and.
She is, uh.

[00:20:01]
Moving out of her garrison command post, moving over to space and missile
defense where we just had a big space and missile defense conference here,
uh, had 11,000 people, uh, who, who came in,
and, uh, she is going to be, be over there,
so we don't have to worry about our space or our missiles or our defense,
either one, because she will be taking care of that also after she leaves,
uh, as garrison commander.
But we have a proclamation there, a resolution.
It says, whereas the city council and the mayor of Huntsville recognized
Colonel Erin Ike for her outstanding leadership and dedicated service as
commander of Redstone Garrison and for making history as the first woman
to hold the position in Redstone Arsenal's 85 year history.
And Colonel Heikey did such a good job that she has another,
uh, she has another lady coming in right behind her,
another colonel coming in right behind her who is female also.
OK, whereas Colonel Heckkey assumed command of Redstone Arsenal on August
1st, 2024, and throughout her two-year tour has led with wisdom,
dedication, and compassion.
And whereas during her tenure, Colonel Ikey successfully navigated significant
challenges, including budget restraints, hiring limitations,
understaffed resources, particularly within the security guard force,
we won't go too far much into that.
And whereas a, a native of Wyndham, Minnesota,
Colonel Ikekey, uh, began her military career when she enlisted in the Minnesota
National Guard in 1998 and has devoted her career to serving our nation
in both peace and war, earning numerous military honors and awards.
Whereas Colonel Ikey's leadership and service have made a lasting impact
on Redstone Arsenal and the greater Huntsville community,
strengthening the partnership between the arsenal and the city.
And whereas Colonel Ikekey relinquishes command of the Redstone garrison
on August 18, 2026, the city of Huntsville is pleased to recognize her remarkable
tenure and is grateful that she will continue serving the community in her
next Army assignment with the Space and Missile Defense Command.
And now we've got the now therefore resolved,
but before I get to that, it's been.
You have been a great partner, a great partner in Huntsville's success,
Huntsville's growth, uh, Space Command came in and you took care of it.
Uh, different agencies have had to grow and had to move.
Uh, move around and you have taken care of it,
and we wanna say thank you for doing such a great job at Redstone Arsenal.
And now therefore, be it resolved that the city council and the mayor of
the city of Huntsville do recognize and honor Colonel Aaron Ickkey for his,
his, her historic leadership as the first woman to serve as commander of
Redstone Garrison and for her exceptional service to Redstone.
On arsenal, the United States Army, and the Huntsville community and extend
their sincere appreciation for her dedication,
compassion, and continued service in our community,
in our community.
And it's signed by all the council members and myself,
so that makes it a unanimous agreement, which is not easy for our Huntsville
City Council to come up with.
Thank you so much.
And Colonel Ikekey made it through luncheon today without,
without, uh, shedding a tear, so she, she did very well,
but, um, I would love for you to give us some remarks.
Absolutely.
Thank you very much, Mayor, and, and to the entire city council.
Um, Redstone Arsenal is what it is, um, a phenomenal,
uh, installation because of the surrounding community.
Um, it wouldn't be what it is without the support from the community,
the support from the leaders.
So I just want to say thank you very much in return.
It's been an honor working with all of you,
um, and I hope that, uh, Redstone meets your expectations as well.
So thank you again, Mayor.
Thank you.
Her husband Colonel Todd is also.
Mr.
Colonel Ike, Mr.
Colonel Todd.
Mhm.
All right.
You advice.
Yeah Thank you again for your service.
I'm so glad you're staying.

[00:25:01]
Best wishes for.
And we're here to bring things to you.
Congratulations and best wishes.
Appreciate you.
It was quite something to attend Colonel Ike's luncheon today and to hear
her staff, um, talk about her with tremendous respect for the work that
she has done it's, it's evident she is a great leader and we look forward
to we're glad that her leadership gets to stay here in the community and
that she has chosen to.
Be part of District 3.
Thank you for that.
Thank you again for being with us.
6D is a resolution honoring the low profile Car Club for its commitment
to community and service.
Motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
Ms.
Watkins, would you like to make that presentation?
Uh, right here.
Right.
Mayor Battle, I'm gonna get you to get up one more time.
Can the members of low profile please come to the stage?
I don't know if any of you, um, like, um,
antique cars, classic cars.
These guys got anything you wanna see and every year we call them to do
the parades, uh, the Huntsville High Homecoming Parade,
Jemison Homecoming Parade, and the back to school parade.
And guess what, they come without failure.
It's more they just didn't come up tonight.
How many is in your group?
They have 21, but I think they got like 500 cars.
So I'm gonna read this resolution real quick.
Yeah.
100%.
They're nice too.
Whereas the city council mayor of Huntsville recognized low profile club
as long standing organized nonprofit automotive organization that brings
together men and women who share a passion for classic customized old school
cars and trucks, whereas founded around 2007,
a low profile car club has grown into a family oriented organization that
promotes.
Fellowship, mutual support, and a shared appreciation for automotive automotive
culture throughout Huntsville and Tennessee Valley,
whereas over the years low profile has evolved and has shared his love of
automobiles into an organization dedicated to giving back to the community,
which they do.
They, they give donations, they come to the schools,
they volunteer.
Any time I call them they show up and I know sometimes they might look at
my number and be like, what does she want now?
But the low profile club provides opportunities for its members to showcase
their vehicles through car shows, cruisings,
parades, and other community events while using these gatherings as an opportunity
to strengthen fellowship and positively engage the Huntsville community.
Whereas the members of low profile strive to be a beacon of integrity and
service by fostering a family oriented and spiritual environment that encourages
its members to support others and enhance the lives of others they encounter,
whereas through its commitment to fellowship,
charitable service, youth mentorship, and community involvement,
the low profile Car Club has become a valued organization within the Huntsville
community and continues to make a positive difference through its members
and outreach.
Now therefore let it be resolved that the city council and mayor of Huntsville,
Alabama do hereby recognize and honor the low profile Car Club for its long
standing commitment to fellowship, community service,
youth mentorship, and giving back to strengthen the Huntsville community.
Y'all can clap now.
Um, and I'm gonna, um, I'm gonna let the president or whoever wants to speak,
but I'm gonna challenge the mayor this year to come up out the fire truck
mayor.
It's cooler to be in a, a, low, low profile car.
They'll bring you right back to your destination.
Who's gonna speak?
Good evening everyone.
Uh, we've been a part of Huntsville since 2007.
Um, we do numerous.
Settings and programs and donations and.
Other activities in the community, but.
It's been a pleasure serving.
So this was an honor to be accepted tonight.
And this is our 19th year.
It's our anniversary this weekend, so y'all welcome to come out.
We'll be at the Bob Harrison Center.
And we'll be at our clubhouse 2800 Jordan Lane Friday and Saturday at Bob
Harry Harris Center.

[00:30:00]
So y'all more than welcome to come out and join us.
He forgot to say they have good food.
Thank you.
7A is the presentation on the para cycling World Championships.
The presentation will be given by Claire Aiello,
who is the communications director for the chamber.
Claire, welcome.
Hello, everyone.
Thank you so much, council, for having me.
I have a fun presentation for everyone here,
and I hope you'll enjoy it, and I hope you will join us at the races September
4th through the 7th, and I think this is very timely to follow the honor
that you just presented to the immigrant community because you will see
many of your countries here competing.
So the dates are September 4th through the 7th in Cummings Research Park.
We are very excited to welcome these athletes,
and we have a number of partners who are helping us with this,
from financial support to infrastructure infrastructure help,
police support, medical support.
It takes a lot to put these races on.
This is our 5th 1 we've done, and it's taking,
you know, the international community has noticed they've,
they're coming back because they had such a good experience in 2023 for
the World Cup.
We have 50 countries coming so far.
The number has risen since I turned in my slide show a few days ago.
Costa Rica jumped in.
But we have 4, uh, 50 countries coming.
Many of them are from South America.
We have many countries coming from Europe,
uh, Japan, Mexico, Argentina, uh, Brazil,
Team USA will be here.
Ireland will be here.
So many of the countries that, you know, the people in this room are from,
you know, whether it's your long time, um,
when, whether it's your grandparents were from there or you're from there,
you're gonna see your country's athletes competing here.
And it's gonna be special.
Um, in 2 weeks, Great Britain is the first team to arrive,
and then most teams will arrive August 29th and 30th.
So that's two weeks from now, 2.5 weeks.
Uh, they're gonna be staying in our hotels,
eating in our restaurants, and this is a projected economic impact of $4.1
million coming to our city.
That's the forecast number from the convention and visitors bureau.
So we're very excited about this tourism boost.
Um, they're gonna be staying in our hotels and eating in our restaurants,
staying all over town.
We encourage you to say hi to them, ask for a picture.
They are great advocates for their sport,
and they love coming to Huntsville.
They love the Rocket when they came here last time.
They love our barbecue, they love our Southern hospitality.
They're friendly, and they want to meet you and say hello,
and we want you to take pictures with them and post about the races and
encourage people to come.
Uh, these are the different types of cycles they race on.
And I wanted to show these pictures because it kind of helps hammer home
what this is.
If you haven't watched para cycling before,
it, it's kind of hard to picture what it is,
but they race on 5 different types of cycles based on the athlete's disability
or impairment.
These are para-athletes.
So, it might be that you can see what their,
their disability is, or it might not be something you can see like a back
injury or a traumatic brain injury, but some,
um, some race, and it's, it's clear.
So on the top right, you see a tricycle.
That's a tall trike, and that's a US athlete on that trike.
He's a Paralympic silver medalist.
Um, in the middle on the far right, you see a hand cycle.
That's one that's very low to the ground.
That's an Italian athlete.
He is competing, um, he, the athletes on those low bikes have some sort
of spinal.
Cord injury or paralysis from the waist down.
Sometimes the athlete below him is kneeling in a hand cycle,
and those two hand cyclists, they're powering with their arms,
and they have tremendous upper body strength.
So, in the lower right, uh, the lower center,
you see cyclists.
There are lots of cycles on the course, men and women.
And then on the lower left, those are the tandem cycles.
Those are my favorites.
There's two riders on the bike.
The person in the front is an able-bodied cyclist.
The person in the back is visually impaired or fully blind.
And they, um, The person in the front is the eyes.
They're communicating with them about what's coming up on the course.
OK, somebody's coming up on our right.
All right, we have a hill coming up, a misting station ahead.
There's the finish line, pedal, pedal, pedal.
Those bikes go 35 to 40 miles an hour because they have 4 legs powering
them.
They're my favorites to watch.

[00:35:00]
The race venue is Cummings Research Park West,
and you see that big race ring that is Explorer Boulevard.
Um, the start finish line is right in front of Columbia High School.
That's the checkered flag there.
And then the blue box is right behind Hudson Alpha.
That's gonna be Athlete Village, and all the tents will be set up there
where the athletes will go and, you know,
get ready and, you know, warm up or cool down.
And the award stage is also over there.
That's the one from 2023.
Those are three, female cyclists on the podium,
getting their 1st, 2nd and place medals, 1st,
2nd, and 3rd place medals, and a gift that we presented them.
That was, uh, Ms.
Baker.
It was a, a stuffed Miss Baker doll from the US Space and Rocket Center,
something that represented Huntsville.
We have something similar this time, a space-themed gift,
but I'm not ready to share it tonight.
So that's the race venue.
Um, I wanna talk about something serious for a moment,
traffic safety.
So in the week and a half leading up to the races,
these cyclists and all their types of cycles will be training on our roads
with traffic.
I want everybody in the room to hear this,
and please share this message with your friends,
your family, your co-workers.
Um, make sure people know to be careful on the roads.
These cyclists will be using flags, the hand cyclists especially,
we're putting that at all the hotels to make sure they have their flags
for their hand cycles.
We are urging we are urging safety with them.
And we're also urging safety with our drivers.
We're gonna talk with our news partners frequently about this,
our TV stations, our radio stations, when they do those traffic updates
daily, please hammer home, be careful, look for cyclists.
They're gonna be going to this, uh, to CRP to train.
They wanna learn that course like the back of their hand.
But they're gonna be coming in from all over to get to the course.
Some have rental vans, some have cars, some do not.
Some will be riding in on their cycles, all the different types of cycles.
So please be cautious.
That will start around August 25th, 26th,
and then the majority of teams get in the 29th,
30th, um, but we'll have a news conference with Huntsville police on the
26th to really hammer this home.
All right, let's talk about something fun.
Team USA will be here.
These are the many faces of Team USA.
There's 28 athletes on Team USA and they're actually training in Birmingham
this week at the Lake Shore Foundation which trains pair of athletes to
get up, you know, up ready for competition.
So we're actually traveling there tomorrow to meet with some of them and
get some video and soundbites with them for promotion.
Um, but we're excited to have Team USA here.
Many of them have been here in the past.
We have 9 US veterans on Team USA and we're very proud of these 8 men and
1 woman.
Um, 4 have been here in the past.
5 are new to Huntsville, but they are awesome,
and the Redstone Rocket has been profiling them,
so we're very thankful for that.
Uh, but some of these athletes came to the sport through their combat injury.
Some athletes, um, had, you know, a bike wreck or a motorcycle wreck when
they're home on rest and recuperation.
But they're all tremendous athletes and they compete for their country,
and we love having them here.
The, uh, world champion rainbow jersey is what they're all competing for,
and that will be awarded at our world championships.
Um, these are two US athletes who won it last year,
but the five colors of that rainbow represent the,
um, the Olympic flag to represent the five continents that compete.
So, I have a big ask of you tonight.
Everybody in the audience, if you're a part of a group that volunteers,
if you know of a group, if you have youth that are 16 or older who needs
service hours, we are asking for volunteers to step forward.
We are almost to our goal on volunteers.
We started at 900 shifts.
To be filled, we are now at 160, so it's gotten better since I turned in
the, the slides.
We're about 160 shifts left to fill.
The shifts are about 3 or 4 hours long, and we're asking for people to serve
as course marshals.
They just, they're around the course and they're like safety patrol guides,
and they help make sure nothing happens out there.
They call for help if something happens.
They make sure nothing blows in the road.
They make sure nobody crosses in front of them.
It's very easy.
Training is provided, a brief training, and you can be 16 and up and do
this.
We've been talking with a ton of groups to get those numbers,
you know, filled, and we, we are thankful for everyone who stepped forward
to volunteer.
We, we're gonna get there, uh, we get our families involved.
Um, but we're almost to that goal.
The main need that we have is for Sunday and Monday,
September 6th and 7th.
So the time trials are the first two days,
the 4th and 5th.
The road races are September 6th and 7th,
and those are the most exciting days to watch.
That's when we want to encourage the crowds to come out.
So if you're gonna pick a shift, pick it on the road race days.
This is the course and you're basically stationed around the course.
You pick an area and we'll tell you where to park and where to go in,
and, you know, where to, where to locate.
But course marshaling is very easy.
You don't have, there's no need to have any prior cycling experience.
You don't have to have done this before.
Um, anyone can do it.

[00:40:00]
We have incentives for our volunteers.
These are our two interns who have been helping all summer,
and we're gonna, if you volunteer, we're gonna put you in a prize drawing
for some great prizes.
If you take more than one shift, you're gonna get entered in that prize
drawing multiple times.
We're giving away a giant SLS, Artemis rocket,
Lego set, corksicle backpack, restaurant gift cards that are.
Businesses have donated a $500 airline voucher,
lots of different things that the community has donated to make volunteering
fun and give prizes to our volunteers.
Um, I wanna stress that the races are free.
You don't need tickets for this at all, and we really encourage spectators
on those last two days, September 6th and 7th,
the road race days.
So I did say 67 if anybody heard that, OK.
Um, but we, we really want the crowds to come out any day.
You're welcome, any day you're welcome.
But September 6th and 7th are the road race days,
so you're welcome.
Um, all the, uh, information I've talked about is at HuntsvillePelworlds.com.
Um, and we're continuing to update that as we get closer.
The athletes will be arriving in 2, 2.5 weeks,
and they're very excited to come here, and we're very excited to host them.
This is gonna be like our own World Cup just with a different sport.
So, does anybody have any questions?
Council members, do you have questions for Ms.
Aiello?
I just want to thank you and thank the chamber for the you guys are getting
to be professionals at doing this.
How many years have you done?
This is the 5th 1 we've done and the 2nd international one,
but this is a championship, so they've competed in 3 World Cups already,
mostly in Europe, but this is the championship for these athletes this year,
and, uh, this is, these are the most elite of them.
So that's we're we're so excited.
Wonderful.
Thank you all, and we hope people will turn out and volunteer.
Thank you for joining us.
Come cheer as well.
Thank you.
All right, we will move on to the business portion of our meeting and,
um, item 8A matters with outside legal representative.
8A is a council decision on per on a personnel hearing for Calvin Haddon
Huntsville Fire Department held on July 31st,
2026.
Is there a motion.
To uphold the decision of the personnel committee to motion from Mr.
Little to uphold.
Second from the chair.
Is there any discussion, Madam President?
Yes, Mr.
Klein.
A few comments, uh, based upon my discussion that I had with our city council
hearing attorney, Mr.
Riley, I feel that the personnel clarify it was Dennis Riley.
I'm sorry, Dennis Riley.
Mr.
Dennis Riley.
No relation.
OK, OK, uh, with our city council special attorney that we had for the hearing,
Mr.
Dennis Riley, uh, I do feel that the personnel decision based upon our discussions
I had with him was appropriate in this case.
Uh, I do think there were questions that were raised that warrant further
exploration.
There seemed to be areas that weren't totally clear to the employee and
his representative, and for that reason, I'd like to request that both HR
and legal review the sections of the personnel manual that deal with our
definition of retaliation.
And any employee protections that we have for them in the manual and also
to look at directives controlling how department heads assign special duties
to employees and to HR to give special attention to deleting Section 14.2a1
which reads the decision to refuse a grievance by the director of HR shall
be final.
That would be deleted.
And then to take the recommendations, present them back to us no later than
the first city council meeting in October.
From there, we can work on what updates are needed to the manual.
Uh, let's do this.
Could we, oh, another comment.
I, I'm assuming that this is an amendment 2,
and if that is the case, I will second this.
This, it would not be an amendment.
This is, this is a request that's being made,
so he's moving to.
Not to, to not, um, uphold, not, not to even engage in the conversation
of upholding, but then moving to this.
No, no, this was my, OK, we're having discussion about this,
and this is what I found everybody talked to their,
you know, discussions with the, uh, city council attorney.
Uh, I can go either way.
Does it have to be a formal motion or is it just a,
a request?
What gets the job done is what I'm after to get this to HR.
With this time period and to get it back to the council,
I think we'd like to hear from Mr.
Hamilton for just a moment.
Well, I just, uh, John Hamilton City administrator,
I wanna make sure that I have clarity because I think the,
here, here's what I heard and I wanna make sure that this is what Mr.
Kling's intent is, is that you've asked the staff to review the,
the specific, specific, uh, sections of the personnel manual that were were.

[00:45:04]
Were relevant in question in this particular case and so what what uh what
I'll take from that is getting together with legal and HR and go through
and review those things and you ask that by the first meeting in October
we come back with a recommendation on anything that may need to be updated
in the manual obviously that would be.
That that the personnel manual is itself an ordinance and so obviously if
there are if there are things that we have recommended changes or that the
council wants to propose that would be an amendment to that ordinance that
is that that is published in the form of a manual but it's actually an ordinance
that we have to follow so uh what I, what I feel like I heard,
I wanna make sure the staff is understanding what you're requesting.
Separate from the decision y'all make right now,
you're asking the staff to go do some study for you,
come back to you with recommendations.
I would, I would assume that any request that a council member makes on
this or something like this, you know, send it to the staff and have it
back to us by October 1 would pretty much be,
uh, be something we can expect to happen.
Is that reasonable to expect?
Well, that's absolutely reasonable for us to,
to do that for you and come back to you with a recommendation.
And perhaps also Mr.
Dennis Riley, um, if you could come to the microphone,
please.
Is Dennis still over there?
Um Just to, to make sure to answer also Mr.
Meredith's question, this would not be an appropriate amendment because
it would not be amending the decision of the personnel committee.
It, it's an after action, is that correct?
So we will take an, we will, uh, take a vote then on the,
the decision of the person to uphold the decision of the personnel committee
if we could do that first and then, um, have any further comments about
that.
Yes, they are.
So are there any other comments regarding.
The decision of the personnel committee.
Hearing none will call for the vote.
um, Mr.
Meredith, how do you vote?
Nay Mr.
Kling.
I Mr.
Little.
Ms.
Watkins, nay.
And the chair votes.
Aye, so the, the decision of the personnel committee is upheld.
So that's taken care of.
And then Mister, uh, and your, your comments are in the record.
Mr.
Hamilton has said that he will follow up both with legal and HR to follow
up on the recommendations that you have made and then report back to council,
uh, with any recommended ordinances or any recommended amendments that need
to be made to the ordinance in the handbook.
Is that clear to everybody?
OK, very good.
All right, thank you very much for, for that.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling, for your recommendations because I,
I, I agree, I think some clarity would be very helpful.
We have no public hearings to be held.
We do have several to be set.
These will, uh, so no action will be taken on these other than to set the
hearings.
10A is a resolution to set a public hearing on the proposed creation of
a tax increment financing district tentatively named TIFD8 pursuant to Alabama
Code Section 11991.
This is to be set for the September 10th,
2026 regular council meeting.
Motion to approve.
Mr.
Meredith makes the motion to approve.
Mr., uh, Mr.
Little has the, has the second.
All in favor, please indicate aye, and opposed.
Motion carries.
This is the first of 3 TF8, um, items on the agenda this evening,
but that hearing will be set for September 10th.
10B is a resolution to declare a public nuisance located at 4704 Cabot Drive,
Northwest, Huntsville, Alabama to set a date for when objections will be
heard.
Is there a motion to set for the August 27th,
2026 meeting?
Motion from Mr.
Merrith.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate.
I opposed.
The motion carries.
10C is a resolution to set a public hearing for Shasho Pocasso Jennings
doing business as Jennings Local Transport for the operation of three taxis.
This is to be set for the August 27, 2026 regular council meeting.
Is there a motion?
Motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate motion carries.
10 is a resolution to set a public hearing on the zoning of 2.62 acres of
land lying on the north side of Old Monrovia Road west of Wayne Road to
Highway Business C4 District and the introduction of an ordinance pertaining
to the same.
Is there a motion to set the hearing for September 24,
2026?
Motion from Mr.
Barrett, second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any, any opposed.
Motion carries.
10E is a resolution to set a public hearing on amending a plat restriction
to remove the restriction requiring compliance with the front and.
Rear yard setback requirements of the residents 1B district of the zoning
ordinance as established on the on the zoning platte of the COVID Green
Mountain as recorded in Platt Book 2024 pages 100 to 101 of the probate
records of Madison County, Alabama, and the introduction of an ordinance

[00:50:00]
pertaining to the same is there a motion to set the hearing for September
24.
So moved motion from Mr.
Meredith, second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate I opposed.
The motion carries.
That brings us to agenda related public comments.
This portion of the meeting is reserved for persons wishing to address the
council on matters relating to the specific content of items on the meeting
agenda.
You may sign up to speak on the public comments roster prior to the meeting,
and they have done so.
When called, approach the microphone, state your name,
home address, and city of residence.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers shall refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and from making comments regarding the good name and character
of any individual.
Let me emphasize again that, and we ask that you please restrict comments
to the agenda item.
Uh, specifically to the agenda item itself.
I, some people have signed up and it seems to be veering a little bit from
the specific agenda item, so keep that in mind.
Um, we're gonna go ahead and begin with Joy Johnson because she's the only
one that wants to speak about something different.
So Joy Johnson, um, the first speaker will be Joy Johnson.
Her subject is 10E, Green Mountain.
Mm Joy Johnson, I live on West Arbor Drive in Huntsville,
District one.
Thank you.
Um, yeah, I just, uh, again, we're gonna try to change a plat restriction.
That we went through all kinds of meetings and presentations and so on and
so forth to get put in place.
Why do we even bother if then you're just gonna wait a couple of years and
sneak in a change on us?
I don't get it.
Um, immigrants also came up, so I'm gonna take this opportunity to say that
we have a lot of Palestinian immigrants in this city.
And for some reason, they have not been recognized in their time of need.
And I wish we would do that.
Thank you.
We'll now move on to Georgia Hernandez.
The subject is Huntsville's immigrant resolution.
Please remember that resolution was about honoring immigrants and restrict
restrict your comments to honoring immigrants.
Buenasares.
Good evening, members of the council.
Uh, my name is Georgia Hernandez.
I moved to Huntsville when I was 8 years old from Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, uh, with my beautiful immigrant mother and my father,
a US Army 7th Group Special Forces Green Beret.
Um, growing up in a military household, I learned early on what real service
and dedication looks like.
My father took a solemn oath to support and defend the Constitution of the
United States, a commitment to fairness, justice,
and the protection of civil rights for all people living on American soil.
That that fundamental principle is why I am standing before you tonight.
While I appreciate the honorary resolution recognizing our immigrant neighbors,
symbolic gestures are just that.
Our community needs clear binding public assurances.
I'm asking this council to pass a formal resolution stating that the city
of Huntsville will not voluntarily collaborate with federal immigration
enforcement.
When locals, I'm gonna cut you off there for just a minute.
The subject is the resolution itself which was honoring,
um, I'm mentioning that please you, but, but you are straying from it.
The instructions are strict, the strict specific contents part of the resolution.
It's part of the topic you're asking for you're asking for another if,
if I can is the person that.
Sponsored the uh the resolution.
That's not a part of the resolution.
I have to disagree, and it's a shame you won't listen to your constituents.
You, I, that resolution was carefully crafted,
honestly, and it's just a gesture, the, the people that you are supposedly
advocating for have said they don't want it.
That's very interesting because I'm one of those.
We're, we're gonna stop here.
This is not, no, not a dialogue, Mr.
Meredith, thank you so much for bringing clarity.
Thank you, Ms.
Hernandez.
We'll now hear from Christopher Leoy, who's,
uh, also, uh, in resolution 26-670.
Is Mr.
Leoy here?
My name is Christopher Leoy.
I live in, uh, Madison.
My address is on file.
I was going to come up here and thank the council for passing the resolution,
uh, honoring the immigrant community, but out of solidarity with my friend
and comrade, I'm just going to reiterate everything that she said,
um, and, uh, really, um, castigate you for,
uh, cutting her off.
Thank you, sir.

[00:55:04]
The next.
To speak is Susan Stewart.
Ms.
Stewart, I made my comment.
Thank you.
And we'll hear now from Jeffrey Engle.
It's Mr.
Engle here.
My name is Jeffrey E Angle.
Uh, my address is correct on the sheet.
I'm a member of the North Alabama chapter of the Democratic Socialists of
America, and I'm here to, uh, thank, uh, Mr.
John Meredith, uh, for your resolution recognizing the immigrant community.
Uh, Huntsville from, uh, our founding is built on immigrants.
Uh, from British and French immigrants, uh,
that stole the land, uh, from the, uh, native population here,
I would like to recognize them as well, um,
and following up by our most historic of the German immigrants,
uh, who were brought over here, uh, after World War II,
uh, a lot of them Nazis, um, to all of the immigrants,
uh, that have come in the last several years,
um, I myself am an immigrant from Arizona.
I moved here farther away uh from most folks uh who have lived,
have moved here from the Caribbean, um, so.
Huntsville is a city of immigrants we call them transplants when they are
from within the United States, um, but they are immigrants nonetheless,
uh, so I do want to thank you, uh, Mr.
John Meredith, uh, for recognizing the contribution of all of the folks
who have did not grow up here.
So thank you, um, and I'm back, um, I really appreciate,
uh, Trey Riley giving me a phone call, uh,
this afternoon allowing me to come back, uh,
to city council after six months of demanding,
uh, my rights be restored.
Uh, thank you Janine Robinson, uh, for violating those rights back in March.
Uh, thank you, uh, John Meredith for thank you John Meredith for time is
up the immigrant Mr.
Engle, your time is up.
We'll next hear from Maria Stansbury.
Is Ms.
Stansbury here?
We'll go on to Katie Calvert.
Is Katie Calvert here?
Rebecca Sanchez.
And that, oh, Ms.
Sanchez.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon, Becca Sanchez, and I'm in District 4 of Madison County.
Um, my, uh, my address is on file.
Um, I would like to thank John Meredith for.
Helping us get this passed.
Um, I would like to say my father has been in Huntsville since the late
90s and he works from 6 to 7 as a mason, except on Sundays.
And every day he comes home.
And he wonders about his place in this country,
and I would like to appreciate for passing that honor,
uh, passing this resolution to honor immigrants,
and I understand that there was some, uh,
tentiveness or some apprehension about passing this,
which I do not understand because I think it is only full of goodwill and
benign, and I honestly think that it could go further.
I think that if you wanted to honor immigrants,
you should pass a formal resolution not to cooperate with ICE should they
become lawful, uh, lawless in this, uh, county.
I don't think that it's that big of an ask.
Thank you.
That he That concludes our speakers and we will go on to the rest of the
meeting and we will hear now from Mayor Battle.
Thank you Madam President.
If I could ask, uh, Thomas Nunez, Thomas,
would you come up.
Uh, to the front, please.
Then you go, I better get a microphone too.
Many of you know Mr.
Nunes because he's he's up at every council meeting and he's at every council
meeting.
Uh, he also works every, uh, what, 3rd, 4th Tuesday night,
uh, and works the 1st and 2nd Wednesday morning starting at 7 o'clock with
meetings, and he is our planning director.
And he does a marvelous job with planning the city and does it on a day
to day.
Basis and Mr.
Nunez, I would like to present you with your 15 year pen.
I know you were wondering why you were up here,
but you've forgotten you've been here 15 years and we wanna say thank you,
thank you for a great 15 years and thank you for the job that you do every
day.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah.
Now, Madam President, the other, the only other thing that I really wanted
to mention today is, uh, uh, we have just finished with,

[01:00:02]
uh, Space and missile defense conference week.
We had 11,000 people in town, uh, lots of people in town,
and, uh, it was, it was a, a great symposium.
Uh, there were not a hotel room, uh, open in all of North Alabama,
and we were very, very.
Uh, proud of, uh, the showing that we were able to do.
Colonel Ikey and Redstone Arsenal, uh, did a great job of putting it together
and making sure that, uh, we could represent what Huntsville does,
which is a center of excellence.
I mean, we bring in the best and brightest,
and we become, uh, and we do some things that nobody else in the world does,
and, uh, you could see that at the symposium over the last 3 days at the
civic center if you tried to come park downtown.
You probably had a hard time finding a parking place over the last 3 days,
but, uh, it was a great, great night for us,
uh, great week for us, and we are very excited,
uh, to be looking forward to, uh, the next year.
So thank you.
Thank you, Mayor.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
We'll go on with council member comments and we'll begin with council member
John Meredith.
Thank you.
Um, I want to thank all those folks who came out to my town hall this past
Tuesday.
And uh informed me of the various issues that were affecting their individual
communities and I look forward to bringing satisfactory resolution to each
of those issues that were mentioned.
I also wanna give a big heartfelt thank you to HPD,
the CROs for the North, uh, District, uh,
precinct rather who were there as well as their captain,
uh, Captain Widner, who led a wonderful.
Discussion on the value of participating in the city's community watch program
and all of the benefits that it brings to the various communities that utilize
it to help um keep down the levels of crime and the the uh cooperation between
citizens in any given neighborhood with uh the police department uh identifying
uh the issues there and also uh one of the unsung.
Benefits of being in a community watch program.
If you are able to identify or, or to identify to uh HPD the good characters
versus the bad characters in in the neighborhood so that the good characters
are not um rounded up with the usual list of suspects.
So, um, there are tremendous benefits to being in a community watch uh program
in individual neighborhoods.
If you are not part of a neighborhood that has a.
Program, please, please reach out to myself or some,
uh, HPD officer, and we'll be happy to give you information of how your
neighborhood can become a part of that network and that's it for me,
Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Meredith.
We'll now hear from council member Michelle Watkins.
Good evening.
I wanna thank Hunt for Utilities for coming out a couple of weeks ago they
had a meeting to talk about the battery installation in our community.
I wanna thank, uh, Wes Kelly and.
Staff, I wanna thank Alison and Arts Huntsville.
This past Friday we had our quarterly art show at Kry Hills.
We had, uh, drum line and we had impromptu acts from,
um, Community Theater, and it was a wonderful time.
Families that came out, I think they really enjoyed themselves.
Had an opportunity to tour the 9/11 Center.
I wanna thank the staff for giving us a tour last Friday.
Um, toured early works as well, um, got to learn a lot of things about them
that I didn't know, so that was exciting as well.
Um, went to the SMD conference and I've had a couple of people ask me why
did I support the TIFF.
I supported the TIFF because when you go to the conference and every hallway,
aisleway space in the civic center is occupied by vendors who support space
and missile defense, who have companies.
I saw firsthand last year the need.
This year it was, it was they had to turn away vendors.
And when you have to turn away vendors that means that it's a really successful
forum and I'm supporting it because if we want to attract large venues,
large forums, large symposiums, we have to have the space so that is why
I'm supporting.
Native and that is one of the reasons why I like going to the conference.
I like learning new things that's going on in space and missile defense,
but at the same time we have to be able to support them if we're gonna bring
them here and not just them, anybody who wants to bring a major conference
here.
Um, Tuesday we had a meeting in Northwoods,
uh, public housing to talk about the future of Northwoods and the university
corridor and, um.
I was really disappointed a lot of people did not show up,

[01:05:00]
so I'm going to have another meeting just so I can make sure that the residents
and the public have input in this proposed plan.
Uh, the Celebrating Education parade will be on August 22nd.
If you have never been to the Celebrating Education Parade,
I would encourage you to come.
It's a lot of fun.
A lot of schools participate.
Everyone comes together.
The kids have a great time.
We start at ASFL.
We end at Jemison High School, and once we get to Jemison,
we have activities there, so it's a lot of fun.
Hope you can make it out, um.
I hope the students had a great week starting back to school this week.
I want to remind everyone, please pay attention to the school zones and
drive the speed limit.
I cannot tell you how many people just passed by me going about 40 or 50
in a school zone.
You never know when a child is gonna jump out in front of a car.
And if you're going too fast sometimes you don't see the safety patrol officer.
So please during 7 and 8 o'clock, 8:30 for high schools,
please pay attention to the school zones.
Uh, I wanna thank Landscape Management, Shane Davis,
Public Works, uh, HPD, as well as our firefighters.
Thank you for everything you do.
That's all I have.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
Mr.
Kling, we'll hear from you next.
Thank you, Madam President.
Uh, over the, uh, past weekend, I had a chance to go out to Huntsville High
School for Panther Fest and got a chance to get a sneak preview and see
the, uh, upcoming football team in action.
And folks, they are big.
There is one player who must weigh very close to 300 pounds and be 7 ft
tall.
And I'm sure he's got a large number of scholar,
college scholarship offers that are already coming his way.
But it was a chance to see things and I think we're all getting to that
point.
It's, it's, it's hot.
I know it's hot.
I'm out there every day it's hot, but around the corner,
it's gonna start cooling off and we're gonna be start talking and thinking
about football and this is gonna be coming and we got our,
uh, high school football teams.
They are practicing now in the heat and they're getting ready for fall football
and, uh, it's gonna be a great season.
I had a great time.
Also I had a chance to see, uh, Uh, Mark Russell,
head of the Huntsville Sports Commission,
he was out there and, uh, again, uh, a lot of great things are taking place
on that school campus.
So I'm excited.
Go Panthers.
Also, a couple capital projects that I know we're gonna be talking about
when we get into the budget that impact the,
the district that I'm excited about.
One is the Holmes Avenue Urban Park Corridor project that's gonna be going
from roughly downtown under the overpass at the parkway further west to
UAH and then an additional section.
Go from UAH over to Sparkman Drive.
This is gonna be a stretched out urban park with a jogging lane,
bicycle path, park benches, beautiful landscaping,
bus stops, uh, low level, uh, lighting, and it's gonna be something that
people can use.
You could walk from UAH, stop, sit, read a book for a little while,
and continue on downtown, and I think that's gonna be a great project.
Uh, a citizen contacted me and told me that there is a lot of historic significance
along that, uh, corridor, and I would like to ask that the planning department,
uh, look into the input that they're going to be getting about this historical
significance and see if this would qualify for coordinating with the state,
uh.
Historical division to see about historical markers being in to recognize
the historical significance that are going that have occurred in that area.
Again, a lot of history has taken place and some things we're just not aware
of, but this would be a way to bring recognition to that area.
Uh, another thing I wanted to mention, I know we've all been hearing from
people about the library.
Can we get the water fountain fixed?
I know there have been leaks at the, uh, roof,
and I think the, uh, library is looking at a plan of action,
and I'm very eager to hear from them.
I know we've had a meeting, uh, with them,
and we've heard from them in the past, but I think we're looking at three
options.
Just thinking out loud, um, is the library looking at.
Major renovation at the existing facility that they have.
Are they looking at building a new library at that location,
or the third, uh, alternative?
Are they looking at building a new library elsewhere in the city?
I think there's a lot of interest.
Uh, I would hope that despite what the, uh,
tenure would be that there could be some short term maintenance things that
could be done.
Uh, I believe our city facilities department has assisted them on some of
their maintenance needs, but I think things that the public have a right
to expect a water fountain working, uh, making sure the bathrooms are,

[01:10:00]
uh, reasonably, um.
In good shape and of course they're kept clean.
These are things that we want to expect.
Uh, we've had great, wonderful new libraries built in the extreme south
and extreme north, and I think we're certainly going to be looking at doing
something good in the center part, but we just need to get.
That plan of action, that communication with the city council and the library
board, uh, the director and the mayor and everybody all together on the
same sheet of music and then see what the,
uh, what the capital plan, uh, placement would be on,
on such actions.
So, uh, I just want to throw it out.
I like the fact we have a good library board.
I know we're gonna be communicating with them,
uh, in the future, and I'm sure this will be something that we'll,
uh, be able to get resolved.
That's all I have, Madam President.
Thank you.
Thank you, Council Member Kling.
We'll, uh, finally hear from Council Member David Little.
Thank you, Madam President.
I'll just start back on, uh, what, uh, the Mayor and Ms.
Watkins said about the SMD conference.
Um, we spent a little time with some of their board and,
uh, uh, some of our friends from the county commission,
and they were very grateful for the TI and real excited about the expansion,
and I am too, uh, because like she said, they've turned away a lot of vendors.
Um, so, uh, 36 months I think to build the South Hall,
36 months to build the South Hall, can you hear me?
Um, so that'll be great, uh, and then also I'd like to thank,
uh, landscape management, police department,
engineering, public works, and Huntsville utilities,
uh, for being responsive to some citizen,
uh, concerns over the last few weeks.
And did Chief McFarland leave by chance?
Is he still here?
Hey, all right, we, you, you don't have to get up,
Chief.
I just, uh, I've, I've certainly communicated with,
uh, Chief McFarland over the last 4 years,
but I finally had a legit.
Email from a citizen to send to the fire department and it was about the
fire hydrants if they've been serviced and I just appreciate that,
but I really want to point out that after 4 years I finally needed to email
you about something from a citizen.
So thanks again.
That's all I've got.
Thank you.
That concludes our comments.
We'll move on to the Finance Committee report 14A is a resolution authorizing
expenditures for payment.
I move for authorization and approval of expenditures in the amount of $35,721,914.78.
2nd from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
14B is an ordinance approving appropriations,
goods or services for District 2 council improvement funds.
Chair moves for approval.
2nd 2nd for Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Little, would you like to share with us, um,
what this, those funds will be used for?
Yes, ma'am.
This is a $5000 appropriation, um, to, I guess,
via Huntsville City Schools to the Lehigh School baseball program so we
can help them get, uh, some new uniforms and equipment for the baseball
team.
OK.
Any questions for Mr.
Little?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
14C is an ordinance approving appropriations goods or services for District
5 council improvement funds.
The Chair moves for approval.
2nd 2nd from Mr.
Meredith.
Mr.
Meredith, would you like to share with us how these funds will be used?
Yes, ma'am.
$10,000 will be appropriated to the AUM Foundation.
Uh, it is an organization that mentors, uh.
For lack of better terminology, underprivileged young ladies,
um, and, um, it will go toward um their program called Pathway to Success
program that uh does a lot of, uh, of work,
uh, for them.
They will provide some, uh, computer equipment software,
uh, and other, um, hardware type of, of, of equipment that helps them monitor,
uh, the students and the students to increase their productivity.
The other is $10,000 appropriated to the North Alabama Coalition for the
Homeless to support uh essential document identifications and documents
that are needed for them to get themselves out of being unhoused,
uh, driver's licenses, Social Security cards,
that sort of thing that you'd need to take to an employer or prospective,
uh, uh, landlord, uh, to help you get out of that cycle,
so that's what.
These allocations are very good.
Any questions or comments for Mr.
Meredith?
All in favor, please indicate.
All opposed.
Motion carries.
We'll now move on to board appointments to be voted on.
We have 3 that will require 4/5 vote of the council,
and we will, uh, have a roll call vote when we get to those.
15A is a resolution to reappoint David Nass to the museum board of the city
of Huntsville to his current seat.
For a six-year term to expire August 13, 2032 is motion from Mr.
Little, second from Mr.
Meredith.
Um, we will, uh, do the roll call vote, uh,

[01:15:00]
with starting with, starting with Ms.
Watkins.
How do you vote?
Hi Mr.
Little, Mr.
Kling, Mr.
Meredith and chairboats, aye and uh.
It is unanimous, so that 4/5 is met.
15B is a resolution to reappoint Joy Joyce Griffin to the museum board of
the City of Huntsville to her current seat for a six-year term to expire
August 13, 2032.
Is there a motion?
The motion for Mr.
Kling.
Second from Mr.
Meredith.
I will go that way.
Mr.
Meredith.
How do you vote?
Mr.
Kling, Mr.
Little, Ms.
Watkins, chair both side.
And Ms.
Griffin is approved.
15C is a resolution to reappoint Steve Thornton to the Vongn Brown Center
Board of Control to his current seat for a four-year term to expire August
27, 2030.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little, second from Mr.
Kling.
Um, Mr.
Little, how do you vote?
Ms.
Watkins, how do you vote?
Mr.
Kling, Mr.
Meredith, and chair votes aye, and Mr.
Thornton is reappointed.
15D is a resolution to reappoint Lynn Troy to the Von Braun Center Board
of Control to her current seat for a four-year term to expire August 27,
2030.
Motion from Mr.
Little, uh, second from Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
15E is a resolution to appoint Vicky Guerreri to the.
The Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals to the seat previously held
by Robert Jones for a five-year term to expire August 22,
2031.
Chair makes makes the motion.
Second for Mr.
Little, all in favor, please indicate any opposed the motion.
Uh, let, uh, the record show that, um, Mr.
Meredith has voted in the negative, uh, but the,
the motion does pass.
15F is a resolution to appoint Zachary Harris to the Human Relations Commission.
Place two due to the resignation of Tracy Harris for the remainder of a
four-year term to expire September 30, 2027.
Move to motion from, uh, Mr.
Little, second from Ms.
Watkins.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
15G is a resolution to appoint Emily Rogers to the Early Works Museum Board.
Place 3 to the seat previously held by Joanna White for a three-year term
to.
Expire June 26, 2029.
Motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
The motion carries.
15H is a resolution to appoint Joanna White to the Early Works Museum Board
Place 8 due to the resignation of Josh McCoy for the remainder of a three-year
term to expire June 26, 2028.
Is there a motion?
motion for Mr.
Little, second from Mr.
Meredith.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Brings us to board nominations.
These are nominations only.
They will be considered at our August 27th meeting.
16A is a nomination to reappoint Thornton Stanley Jr.
to the Board of Examinations and Appeals for Construction Industries Place
8.
His current seat for a three-year term to expire September 21,
2029.
16B is a nomination to reappoint Dennis Dean to the Board of Examinations
and Appeals for Construction Industries place to his current seat for a
three-year term to expire September 21, 2029.
16C is a nomination to reappoint Heather Bender to the Animal Services Advisory
Committee place to her current seat for a three-year term to expire September
8, 2029.
16D is a nomination to reappoint Colin Keller to the Animal Services Advisory
Committee.
Place 5 is current seat for a three-year term to expire September 8,
2029.
16E is a nomination to reappoint Christopher Jason Smith to the Board of
Examinations and Appeals for Construction Industries.
Place 16, his current seat for a three-year.
Term to expire September 21, 22029.
16F is the nomination to appoint Joshua Pennington to the Huntsville Police
Citizens Advisory Council place 13 due to the resignation of Brian Webb
for the remainder of the vacant four-year term to expire August 1,
2027, and 16G is the nomination to appoint Larry Durham to the Board of
Examination Appeals for Construction Industries Place 7 to the seat previously
held by Russ Grimes for a three-year term to expire September 21.
2029, that was a lot.
And Mayor Battle, would you like to, I always miss Susan.
I'm so sorry.
Um, Madam President, if I could just for the record,
I need to, uh, announce the reappointment of Doctor Larry Lowe to the Huntsville
Housing Authority for a five-year term to expire August 15,
2031 and the reappointment of Robert Stinson to the,
uh, Huntsville Historic Preservation Commission to a six-year term to expire
May 4th, 2031.
Uh, I'll give this to the clerk.
Thank you for getting those read into the record.
Are there any nominations from the floor?
Hearing none, we'll move on.
We will now move on to Huntsville utilities items.

[01:20:00]
There, there are no specific items on the agenda,
but I was reminded that, uh, previous to 2020,
I guess we used to have, um, a representative from Huntsville Utilities
come to the podium every meeting to give us a report on any issues of concern
and so we're gonna start.
Heading in today and Mr.
Gerdes is here with us to bring us matters of concern from Huntsville Utilities.
Thank you, Council President Joe Gerdes, External Affairs,
Huntsville Utilities.
Uh, we had this conversation internally and we had a much more routine cadence
of appearing before council even when we didn't have items on the agenda
just to address some of the concerns.
Uh, we want the viewing public and council to know we are aware that people's
bills are up.
It is hot.
Uh, it is unavoidable.
It is weather driven, um, when you have low temperatures that don't go below
where people set their thermostats, your cooling equipment is going to run
a lot, and that's the biggest that and your,
uh, heating appliances like water heaters and such,
those are the biggest drivers of your utility bill.
Uh, council has asked us over the years and we have complied with.
Finding ways to communicate energy efficiency tips with our customers,
that is a constant effort, uh, we have never been better armed to do that
and we're doing that now via our website,
via our web portal, via our mobile app we also,
uh, our friends in the local media give us a lot of attention on those things,
but, uh, you know, there's, there are often comments made on social media
where, uh, folks worry that we've raised our rates we have not.
Um, it is just the matter of hot weather.
Uh, your utility bill is weather driven, and if you have concerns about
your bill, please call us.
Also want to remind the viewing public that we recently made our home energy
audit free.
So if you think something in your home is malfunctioning.
You can call us and set up a time for a technician to come out and do an
audit on your home and help you identify what those things are,
uh, then, then the homeowner, the customer is armed with a way to react
to maybe some high usage that they could avoid through some maintenance
insulation, things of that nature.
So just wanted to reassure everyone that we have not raised our rates,
we have no plans to raise any rates in the foreseeable future.
And of course when we do need to do that you will have plenty of notice.
Thank you so much for the time, Council President.
Thank you.
Does anyone have any questions?
Council members questions for Mr.
Garridis.
Thank you for sharing with us regarding the free energy audits.
That is, that would be a great service for our community.
We look forward to having you come back at our next meeting for another
report.
Thank you.
8 item 18 is legal department items transactions.
18A is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of utility and drainage easements
between lots 54 and 55, 55 and 56, 56 and 57,
and 57 and 58 Oak Bluff Subdivision South Bluff Trail Southeast.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Liu, second from Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
18B is the ordinance authorizing the vacation of a 15-foot utility and drainage
easement Lot 1A, Block 1, Lyndon, subdivision 40 DeWitt Drive.
Is there a motion motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
18C is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of a portion of a 5-foot utility
and drainage easement lot.
One Huber's Corner subdivision 715 Adams Street.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate motion carries.
18D is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of utility and drainage easement
between lots 34 and 35.
Watson Grand preserve phase 6 at McMullan Cove.
Is there a motion motion for.
Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries, and 18E is an ordinance authorizing the vacation of
utility and drainage easements for lots 89,
10, and 15 in the Commons at Trailhead Subdivision Old Gurley Road.
Motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Um, 19, uh, unfinished business items for action.
19A as an ordinance to amend ordinance number 89-79.
Classification and salary plan.
Is there a motion to approve motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by Mr.
Kling.
All in favor, please indicate and opposed.
The motion carries 19B is an ordinance to amend the budget ordinance number
25-744 to modify the authorized strength of the department.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.

[01:25:03]
Little, seconded by Mr.
Kling?
Are there any questions on this one?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
19C is an ordinance annexing 1.14 acres of land lying on the north of Countess
Road and west of Jake Jim Drive.
Is there a motion to approve motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair.
Are there any questions?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
The motion carries.
Uh, 19D is an ordinance annexing 3.07 acres of land lying on the west of
Dupree Worthy Road and north and south of US Highway 72 West.
Motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith, second from Mr.
Little, and it looks like Mr.
Nunez has a presentation for us.
I had a presentation on the last one.
Nevertheless, if you wanna continue with business,
I'm, I'm OK with that.
He's got to earn that pen.
Yes, indeed.
Next one we really want to see the president.
Yes, indeed, uh, Thomas Nunez, manager of planning and zoning services.
So, uh, this is a, a request petition to annex for 1.14 acres lying north
side of, um, west coast, sorry, 3.07 lying on the west of Dupree Worthy
and north uh north and south of US Highway 72 West.
Uh, the property in question is, um, seeking annex for a commercial retail
development.
Any questions for Mr.
Nunez?
All in favor please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
OK.
Here's the big 1.
19E is an ordinance annexing 536.68 acres of land lying on the east of US
Highway 72 East, north and south of Little Cove Road.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little second from Mr.
Meredith.
All right, Mr.
Nunez, thank you, Council members.
Uh, this item is.
East of US Highway 72 East and north and south of Little Cove Road,
uh, petitioners are seeking to annex approximately 536.68 acres.
Uh, this is for a proposed residential development for approximately 270
acres, uh, are mountainous areas and shall remain in natural state.
Can you, can you just repeat that again so we get that there,
there, so, uh, of the proposed development,
uh, this is approximate approximately yield 400 to 500 single family homes
and, um, uh, retain approximately 270 acres in a natural state because of
its, uh, slope development components.
Uh, that's primarily in the wooded area that is shown,
uh, based on the depiction.
So of the 536.68 acres, um, you're not 300 of that probably won't be developed,
will be, will be 300 will be 270 will be retained.
Yes, ma'am.
questions or is there a deed restriction or something that's gonna be on
that to make sure this is what we're told and something doesn't change down
the line?
There are particular actions being taken by the development team.
Um, the family that currently owns the property.
I'd like to, uh, in that action see that these areas are preserved,
uh, through that it could be a possibility of a uh derestriction additionally
there could be possibility of, uh, donations to the land trust,
but those conversations are still ongoing at this time.
Thank you.
So the action before us though is just the annexation,
and then we will have those other conversations.
That would be correct, yes ma'am.
All right, any other comments?
I just have a quick question.
I, uh, was contacted by my counterpart on the school board.
Um, I'm just curious, uh, well, first there was some just,
uh, misunderstanding of how large this is,
and it's about half of what she had heard,
so we're good there.
Um, I, I assume we'll be rezoning this down the road.
That would be correct.
So, um, I wanted to give you an opportunity to finish your question,
but to answer this, uh, strictly, uh, as this property,
if this proposal is to annexed, then you'll see in approximately 9060 days
that, uh, this proposal will come for you for zoning,
uh, where we can get into a little bit more detail of the proposal.
Um, and walk through those particular actions,
but yes, upon annexation, a municipality requirement is to zone the property
for an intended use.
Right?
And that, and is it too early to know about like,
uh, the type of zoning or density, you know,
uh, yeah, there's a consideration of proposal for residents to district
for single family homes.
Uh, like I stated, it should possibly produce,
it'll be a mixed use proposal.
That would be uh some lots at 60 ft, some lot at 70 and 80 and 100 ft,
so larger lots, so there's a mixture of housing which from a planning perspective
we look for so that there's an opportunity for multiple entry level or entry
components for all those that are living in a particular area.
So it's just not catered to 11 action or one particular uh consumer at the
end of the uh the notion, but.
Uh, we're excited to see future growth.

[01:30:00]
Uh, this growth growth will take approximately 10 to 15 years.
There will be other actions that will come before you in the future.
OK, great.
Thank you.
You're very welcome, sir.
Any other questions?
Thank you, Mr.
Nunez.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Thank you, council members.
Thank you, sir.
19F is an ordinance to declare property as surplus and authorizing the mayor
to enter into purchase agreement between City of Huntsville and API Huntsville
LLC in connection with the North Huntsville Target Shopping Center.
Is there a motion?
Motion to motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Ms.
Watkins, um, and we have a presentation from Mr.
Davis.
Thank you Madam President.
So, um, no presentation on this item.
We, we do have some coming, but I do want to explain this.
So, uh, as the resolution says, this is part of the North Huntsville Village,
uh, project, and we're getting close to closing,
uh, so Target can start going vertical and,
and Home Depot and out parcels and the other retail components.
So a lot of work has, has happened.
Uh, went through, uh, Platts, and what we have done through the final layout
of this very large shopping center is adjusted some acreage,
uh, so there's regional detention.
We've, uh, got the developer API to agree,
uh, not only to build that but to maintain that to have public and private
water going in it, but there will be no maintenance on the city.
So we're selling them that and then the out parcels now that we have the
known uh user for those out parcels we wanted to retain those in the beginning
to make sure we had the right uh retailers to make commitments to those
we, we wanted to get the right development up there so developer has brought
those to us, uh, and should you approve this,
we'll come forth with public.
Uh, it's at the same rate that you previously approved.
What we're essentially doing, adding 12 acres to the agreement you previously
passed.
Should you approve this, we would look forward to close before the end of
the month.
Uh, I, I will tell you the, the additional proceeds to the city be a little
over $2.2 million of additional payment to the city,
uh, for property.
Thank you.
Questions or comments from Mr.
Davis.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
Thank you, Council members.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis.
We will see you up here in just a minute.
Uh, we're going on now to new business items for consideration or action.
These items will be approved in one motion unless any member of the council
wishes to remove an item for discussion.
The reading of each item will be waived unless the council member requests
otherwise.
Are there items anyone wishes to hold, Mr.
Meredith?
I'd like to hold um H.
The V as in Victor.
Yes ma'am.
I'm getting good at this and why.
Y as in Yankee.
OK.
Uh, yes, I'd like to hold C.
E G.
I had H down, but John has that.
Oh, You And I have B down, but John has that as well.
And also, um, and then I would add item M.
And item P.
M as in Mary or N as in Nancy?
M as in Mary or mango or whatever.
So the chair will move for approval and consolidation and approval of items
20A and B, 2020, 20 I to L, 20 N, 20Q to T,
and 20 W, 20 X, 20 Z to AD.
Is there a second?
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
We will now take up item 20C.
20C is an ordinance amending budget ordinance number 25-744 by changing
appropriate funding for various departments and funds.
Is there a motion motion for Mr.
Little, seconded by the chair, um.
Do we have questions for this?
So this, so this item is regarding library floor repairs.
We've had lots of questions about, uh, the library,
um, support for the library.
Mr.
Hamilton, can you share with us what we have done here to support the library?
Uh, yes, Council member John Hamilton, city administrator.
So what's before you is just a, a budget transfer from the 90 capital plan
to the library.
They, uh, had some flooring there primarily on the first floor.
So if you're familiar with that library branch,
there's a tile floor that's, uh, in the entryway and around,
uh, the desk where you engage with the staff.
That floor need to be replaced.
Uh, we had money in the capital plan set aside for,
for maintenance issues within the library.
So this is just they had contracted for we're transferring the funds to
them to pay for that project.
Any questions?
Yes, did you say that was the downtown library?

[01:35:00]
It is the downtown, yes ma'am.
Thank you.
Thank you for sharing that and then I hope people will take note of what
we're doing just to maintain it and keep it going for right now.
So, uh, all in favor, please indicate the motion carries.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter an agreement between the
city of Huntsville and Stillwell Construction Inc.
for the Von Braun Center Playhouse Theater seat renovations project.
Is there a motion to approve?
Move to approve motion by Mr.
Little, seconded by Ms.
Watkins.
Um, are there questions regarding this item?
Not sure who held it.
OK, Ms.
Watkins.
I, I can just ask you the question, uh, Mr.
Hamilton, it says seat renovations.
When is this gonna take place if it's passed?
Uh, I don't know the exact timeline on it,
but it, it'll need to be pretty quickly.
I mean, it's part of the ongoing project,
but it's a replacement, uh, primarily of the seating in the play.
Will there be any downtime?
I mean downtime, would it be a lot of downtime for the theater?
There has been some downtime, and they, and you know,
they've managed their rental, uh, schedule around those things,
OK.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Uh, 20G is up next.
20G is a resolution authorizing the President or present prote of council
to make written or other submissions as required,
give no notices or notifications, and represent the counciling meetings
as required by Alabama Code Section 11-99-1 with respect.
to consideration of tentatively named TF D8 on behalf of the City council
of the City of to approve motion for Mr.
Mayor, seconded by the chair, seconded by Mr.
Little.
Thank you.
Um, so this is the, the, the first of two items we're going to take up regarding
TI 8.
And so Mr.
Davis, if you'll introduce this particular item,
and then we'll go on to the next one.
Yes, ma'am.
OK, thank you, Madam President.
Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development,
so.
Uh, council members, it hasn't been, uh, very long ago that,
uh, you approved a TIF 9 district.
Uh, this is a proposed TIF 8 district, and they go in sequential order.
One of the reasons that the downtown TIFF was TIF 9,
this, uh, proposed TIF was actually proposed or prepared for reserved,
if you will, many years ago.
Uh, when we purchase the property where Eli Lilly,
uh, will set up shop here in, in the next coming years,
you see the logo there where they will be at exit northeast corner of Exit
3 of I-565 and Greenbriro Parkway as part of that large private investment
by Eli Lilly of over $6 billion.
What comes along with that just the same as we did for Polaris at TIF 6
and we did for Mazda Toyota with TIFF 7, is there's public improvements
that need to occur.
And the best way to do that is through a tax increment financing district.
So what that allows us to do is to take that investment and,
and use it to capitalize into road improvement projects and utilities and
things that we need to do to support Eli Lilly,
uh, but as I've told others in this area,
it's also to support the existing industry that's out here.
So at exit 3, if you've been out there in the mornings today without Elila
coming, it's super congested.
We put 15,000 new jobs at this exit in the last decade.
So what we wanna do is, is, is what you have done.
You've set a public hearing already for the next council meeting.
Uh, this item that you're looking at right now or will vote on is to designate
the council president as the representative of the city and working with
our deferred tax recipients, meaning the Limestone County commission,
just as we did with the, the Madison County Commission on TI not that.
That is by state statute that is required by state law as we start to walk
through this, uh, the next item that you will also take up tonight is you
will direct the administration, the mayor's office,
and my office to develop a project plan to bring before this body and to
share publicly and for you to.
Uh, be able to review and consult and provide guidance.
And once that draft plan has been, uh, discussed at that public hearing,
then we would then move on to the Limestone County Commission and present
it to them and then back to this body for adoption.
And then we would move forward with the final identified project items to
be placed in that TI district.
Uh, what I wanted to do tonight is just very quickly show you a tentative
of what we believe.
Uh, will be the general boundary, uh, should you,
uh, take up this item and the next, uh, item and approve that tonight,
we will then roll our sleeves up and finalize this boundary,
but generally speaking, we know the road project and utilities that need
to occur in this general area moving forward,
Madam President.
Council members, do you have questions or comments?
Comment, um, thank you, Shane.
Um, really appreciate all your work on this and particularly,

[01:40:03]
um.
Specifying where the Eli Lilly campus is gonna be,
there has been some, uh, discussion in the community,
uh, that folks didn't know that it was going to include that campus.
Um, I know I personally focused more on the the area south of that,
um, so I'm probably partially to blame, but thank you for letting the public
know that Eli Lilly is actually included.
Included in this tip and they're just not generating uh the the interest
in the tip you council mayor brings up a good point.
We, we would not be enacting or asking to move forward with TIFF District
8 without the lot of Lily project just like we did with Polaris with TIF
6 and Mazda Toyota with TIF 7.
That is a known investment coming, but to win those projects,
you know, the community has to make commitments in public infrastructure
investment.
I'm going to keep my dig down deep questions for the public hearing so that
you can save a little of your voice, but thank you so much.
Uh, you and your staff and, uh, planning as well,
uh, have just done yeoman's work on this,
and thank you.
There's a great team behind me, sir.
Absolutely.
Other questions or comments?
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries, and then we'll continue that discussion with 20H.
20H is a resolution authorizing the city of Huntsville Department of Urban
Development to prepare a project plan for the development of a proposed
tax increment financing district tentatively named TIFD8,
which district encompasses approximately 9,054.82 acres,
more or less in accordance with.
Alabama Code Section 11-99-1 motion to approve motion for Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Kling.
Mr.
Davis, thank you, Madam President.
Again, uh, this action is, uh, you authorizing or directing the mayor and
the administration to develop a project plan and bring before this body
for discussion and finalization of, and what that would do is,
is a multiple things.
One, it would define the final boundary.
It would also identify all projects to be performed or to be paid for within
that district under those future revenue streams from future private investments
and we'll get into that, uh, should you approve this in a couple of weeks.
Questions And the public hearing will be on September 10th,
I believe is what September 10th, and it will be on,
on that plan.
Yes, ma'am, that, that's when the administration would introduce the draft
project plan to this body.
But this is gonna get you started, so that's good.
Yes ma'am.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
The next item.
Is item 2 M.
Keep me straight here.
20M is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter an agreement between
the city of Huntsville and Acom Technical Services Inc.
for engineering design services for Hobbs Island Road bridge replacement
over Aldridge Creek Project number 71-26-BR02.
Chair moves for approval.
Second for Mr.
Little.
Um, and Ms.
Martin, I, the reason I have held this is there's lots of confusion between
this and the railroad bridge.
And so can you please tell us what we're doing here?
Yes, ma'am.
Kathy Martin, director of City engineering.
So this is a design contract with AECO for the full.
Replacement of the Hobbs Island Bridge.
This is the bridge that's just east of the parkway along Hobbs Island Road.
It's a two lane bridge right now.
We've monitored it for many years and it's time to replace it,
and it will be able to handle the truck traffic in that area,
which will be good news for the folks in Marina Woods who don't like the
truck traffic coming through, through their roads there and tearing up their
roads.
And again, this is the railroad bridge is a separate project,
the railroad bridge that collapsed.
That will be handled separately.
This is the road itself, um, the road that goes over the Hobbs Island road
that goes over Aldridge Creek.
Yes ma'am.
Thank you.
Anybody else have comments?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carries.
Thank you very much, Ms.
Martin.
20.
Oh 200 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a construction
services agreement between the city of Huntsville and Thrash Commercial
Contractors Inc.
for the public parking improvements for the Orion Amphitheater.
Is there a motion to approve motion for Mr.
Little second from Mr.
Meredith.
Mr.
Wilkinson, yes, good evening, Ricky Wilkinson,
Director of General Services.
Uh, as you mentioned, this is a construction services agreement with Thrash
commercial contractors for the public parking improvements at the Orion
Amphitheater.
Uh, this construction contract is for a precast parking deck,
uh, to be installed just east of the amphitheater,
um, adjacent to the former Tarcog property.
Uh, the amount of this construction contract is $332,950,000.

[01:45:05]
Uh, this will be a four-story parking deck with 924 parking spaces.
Questions for Mr.
Wilkinson?
Um, I guess I would for clarification.
It says that it is a parking improvements for the Ryan Amphitheater,
but this deck will be available to anyone in Mid-City that wants to use
it.
Yes, that is correct, absolutely.
Is this going to be paid parking or is it gonna be free parking?
Yeah, no, so right now, uh, there are provisions in the contract and in
the construction documents for future parking equipment if we choose to
add that in the future, but when it's opened,
it will not be paid.
As you're probably aware, if you buy a ticket to the amphitheater,
your parking ticket is included, um, with your,
your venue ticket there.
So there'll be no separate controls here.
It'll be open during normal business hours for mid-city,
um, for free parking as well.
Is any of that parking money gonna be used to,
uh, I don't know, be in an enterprise account or to defray the cost of this?
Uh, again, I mean, there's no, there's no charge for this.
OK.
Other comments or questions?
All in favor, please indicate and opposed.
Motion carries.
20% is a resolution authorized me to enter an agreement between the city
of Huntsville and Visionary In Integration Professionals LLC for software
to improve cross-department coordination for zoning,
permitting, inspections, and other functions.
Is there a motion to motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Mr.
Musney with with us tonight.
Yes, thank you, Council President.
The council, Mayor, uh, this is a, uh, a legacy software system that is,
uh, uh, will be hang on, Mr.
Muzzy, would you just introduce yourself,
your title for the record?
Sorry, uh, yes, Alan Musy, uh, director of inspection Services.
Thank you, sir.
Welcome.
As I was saying, this is a, a legacy software that include,
uh, multiple departments all involved with development and,
and building.
Uh, the inspection department would be the,
be the sponsoring department for this.
So this is a legacy system.
It will replace numerous existing software systems that were already in
play, uh, mainly our permitting system, which is over 25 years old,
uh, created, it's, uh, really overdue.
We have problems, uh, crashes, as well as,
uh.
Implementing, uh, this general permits and stuff across the board,
it will increase our, uh, abilities to, uh,
issue all permits online, uh, save in that.
So we'll have a, a key system right now we cannot do that across the board.
So like I said, it would be with, uh, multiple departments of up to 12 in
divisions of those departments.
So with, uh, community development we covering this software.
We'll have a system that will be, uh, sourced,
and I'll kind of go through this, uh, slide show here with you right now.
Uh, like I said, the main, the main benefits of this is your,
uh, outdated technology.
Uh, of course our current systems are, are,
are not available for accessibility and transparency.
Uh, we have cross-department use, uh, is the some of the main use integration.
But this is just the key points we're working with life cycle tracking.
We'll have all of our data together which will include easy tasking,
uh, cut down on, on, on, on staff and, uh,
communications between staff, which is sometimes,
uh, hard to achieve during departments where all our systems will be mobilized
together.
We'll have mob mobilization between our field capacity with all departments
engineering, uh, so we currently don't have a lot of that.
Uh, in play, uh, inspection will continue.
We'll have our GI system part of this data,
so we're tracked down, we could, uh, track our systems a little bit better,
track our, uh, developments as well, uh, uh,
payment system, finance the legacy and, and future,
uh, compatibility also, uh, improving other,
other departments like we, uh, and add modules as needed,
uh, but this will cover July 1st up to 150 users,
uh.
This will also uh uh went through uh the current process as,
as well as as for any other software, uh,
uh, integrates, uh, like I said, multiple department requirements,
uh, went through the standard RA through,
uh, bidnet, uh, we had 21, uh, credible proposals that were presented to
the city.
Uh, we narrowed those down to the top 3, of course,
I'm choosing.
Uh, uh, and the chosen, uh, vendor for this selection went through rigorous,
uh, uh, through all the departments and through staff.
It was directed through our, our chief innovation officer Larry Lowe helped
us to guide us through this system.
So, uh, we feel like it's comfortable and chose the,
the, the right company during this for this process will be visionary integrations
of professionals.
We have members of their team here also that come in out of town,
uh, that was here to represent, uh, if needed.
Like to recognize them as well.
Uh, like I said, overview went through, uh,
evaluation solution.
Uh, we end up going through, uh, we had a,
a, a, a grading system that, uh, with technical was 70 points.
Uh, pricing was 30% of that, so we had a,

[01:50:01]
a vast majority.
Uh, of course this software was not the highest of the,
of the, of the ones we took, so we took the evaluation and chose that to
be selective and make sure we chose the right,
uh, based on the, the all the departments input as well.
Uh, so, uh, uh, los and selection was negotiated,
you know, any costs or anything like that,
uh, legal went through the system very well on both sides.
IT supported this as well too went through and all security measures are
in play.
Uh VIP contract is, is here.
uh, this is a 3 year agreement, so this is,
is, this is not one lump sum.
Uh, it starts out with a total, the total valuation of this is noted,
uh, this, uh, 1.93, uh.
Just right under 2 $2 million for that 3 year,
3 year plan, uh, uh, implementation of that and the,
uh, uh, subscriptions are based on that, based on a 3 year subscription
process.
Uh, the most, one of the biggest costs, of course,
integrations of all the, all the systems and everything in this,
uh, so this is, uh, entailed based on 14 sprints throughout the process,
but it is a 33 year program right now we have,
uh, for this, uh, uh, total, uh.
Uh, you can see some of the records.
Uh, there's, uh, opposing up to 75 records.
It would include automatic, uh, also backup systems integration with our
laser fish.
It would cut down on some manpower and stuff like that as well.
So it would be, uh, be integrated with CClickFix so that way part of our
systems we have different, uh, different systems.
So all of our teams will be able to look at this,
look at data between.
Different departments in in one system based on those the addressing and
stuff through our city systems uh.
Uh And then time lock it says the 18 month implementation of that in a 36
months total contract on this evaluation.
Any questions or anything for that?
Questions for Mr.
Musney.
I will make one comment and that's one of the things I hear from home builders
a lot is you've addressed a lot of the questions that they have where instead
of having to go to one department after another and fill out the same paperwork,
this will integrate it.
It sounds like communication will go a lot better,
so this a lot of work, a lot of expense, but it will benefit in the long
run home buyers who will be able to get their homes built,
um, hopefully faster and.
And go through the inspection process a little bit more clearly.
Yes ma'am.
Yeah, all the, all this that will be collected.
So based on those addresses.
So anything for community development, we had a discourse in years past.
Our team could see those in the field when,
when we're there doing inspections in any of our,
any of our departments be able to see all that data into that one group,
group together into a a uniform fashion.
So good.
OK, thank you so much.
All in favor, please indicate opposed motion carries.
20U is a resolution to authorize the mayor on behalf of the city of Huntsville
to apply for US Environmental Protection Agency a fiscal year 2027-2028
air programs grant in an amount up to $300,000.
Is there a motion to motion for Mr.
Little Se second from Mr.
Meredith.
Um, Mr.
Davis, thank you, Madam President.
Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development.
So Mayor, I mean, uh, city council.
Members, this is an annual renewal air, uh,
grant that our natural resources department applies for every year to help
fund and, and operate the department.
The amount of grant would be $200,000.
It comes with a 40% match which is part of their annual budget,
uh, that gets to count towards that.
So it's just a renewal of an annual, uh, EPA air grant that,
that we apply for and, and have routinely received annually.
Any questions?
Questions for Mr.
Davis.
All in favor, please indicate opposed motion carries.
And, and Madam President, if I can ask, what those funds are used for is
to monitor our, our air pollution program that,
that's required.
I should have so much brought in what we,
what the money is used for.
Thank you.
20 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to execute modification number
2 to the agreement between the city of Huntsville and Skyfire AI Inc.
Motion to approve motion for Mr.
Meredith.
Second for Mr.
Little.
Um, who is going to be speaking to this, Mr.
Hamilton.
Good evening council members.
What's before you is a modification to our,
uh, existing contract with Skyfire that relates to our drones as first responder
program.
So as you, uh, will recall, uh, we went into a pilot program to,
uh, to operate drones drones as first responders from a single site which
is the, the police headquarters at the municipal Justice Building,
uh, but that program is, uh, limited to a certain radius based on safety
standards and FAA standards.
Uh, so let me just back up and kind of explain what the drone's first responder
program is.
So, uh, citizen calls in, calls 911.
They have an emergency, uh, at whatever location,
uh, as the program is just right now, if that location is within the allowable
radius, uh, of our site there at municipal justice,

[01:55:02]
uh, the NAMA can launch a drone to get eyes on,
uh, whatever that situation is quickly.
Generally speaking, that drone can get there a whole lot faster than the
police can or other emergency services, uh,
and that allows them to actually see what's.
Happening there, see if there's a hazard or confirm that maybe it's a false
call or whatever it may be, uh, but give to for those responding officers,
uh, and, and other, uh, whether it's the fire department or HEMSI or other,
uh, other entities as well, a sense of what's actually happening on the
ground to make sure we've got the right resources on the way.
If there's a particular hazard that you to be aware of,
they can know that in advance, uh, and what,
uh, because of how large and spread out our city is that 11 site doesn't
come anywhere near covering all the area that we need to.
So what this modification will do is add 3 additional sites spread further
out so that we can start, uh, providing that service to a greater portion
of our city.
Uh, we now that we're past that pilot program and it has worked well,
uh, this allows us to continue to expand and deliver the service to more
and more of our citizens.
Mr.
Meredith, um, uh, are any of these, uh, new additional sites in District
5?
Uh So they will definitely provide coverage District 5.
What I don't, I don't have the map in front of me to know that the launch
point is actually in District 5 because they will,
they'll end up covering, you know, multiple.
It'll go into multiple districts based on what the radius is,
but I'll get you a map with the specific sites.
They'll be from municipal facilities, but I know that portion of District
5 will have that coverage.
I just don't know if the launch site is actually located in District 5.
Launch site with the radius with a radius,
exactly.
If you can get that to me, thank you, will do.
Any other questions, Ms.
Martin?
What's included in this monthly cost?
So, uh, there is some, some of the cost is the upfront purchase of the equipment.
So it's not only the actual, uh, uh, drones and the launch equipment.
I think there's also a radar system that's part of the safety.
Uh, to ensure that, uh, they understand what hazards,
and there's a lot of FAA rules, uh, that kind of dictate out,
uh, the altitudes and things like that, just the way they separate the airspace,
uh, but a lot of the system is, is related to the safety and then in the,
the monthly fee there's certain licensing fees as well as,
uh, operational costs that go into the monthly fee.
So Skyfire is a local company actually does a lot of uh a lot of training
and uh for uh for drones and do these types of uh equipping and assistance
with operations.
OK, um, at the end of the contract, will we own the drones?
Yes, we're buying the equipment.
OK.
So we went on now I would anticipate, you know,
if, uh, if it continues to be successful,
it is, uh, you know, as, as equipment, uh,
and technology evolves, we're likely doing life cycle replacements,
uh, of, of the systems as we go along.
Um, have you done an analysis to see what it would cost the city to operate
their own drone program?
I We, um, the specific answer to your question,
no, the way you're asking the question, no,
we have, I have not specifically looked at what,
uh, what the cost would be to, uh, bring these employees in as,
uh, as city employees.
We do have some employees that work in this area.
Uh, but right now the cost associated with full-time employees as opposed
to the contract services is definitely would definitely be higher,
but I'm happy to kind of go through that with you if you wanna kind of see
that and see if we, as we evolve the program,
we oftentimes do those things where we start out with on a contract and
then as the program grows we start turning it over to full-time employees
and so, uh, that's something that we would want to continue to monitor year
over year.
So has the drone deployment, has it reduced officers' response time?
Uh, well, what it does is it gets, uh, it definitely gets,
uh, our officers' eyes and the folks in the Namma's eyes on it much,
much faster.
Uh, so oftentimes we're getting to a scene in 1 minute or less where an
officer might be 4 or 5 minutes just based on,
uh, just based on distances.
Uh, it's not gonna speed the actual officers in their cars,
uh, but what it does is allows them to get eyes on,
understand what, uh, what situation have.
There's examples might be they were, they were,
you know, the 911 call said go to this particular address.
There's been an assault, uh, and what the drone sees is the person who perpetrated
that crime has now departed and they can see where they actually went down
the street and they can vector the officers into the correct location where
somebody might be hiding in the bushes or those kinds of things.
OK, so it's, it's helped them identify if the.
Um, offender is still in the area.
Absolutely, it, uh, you, you, you will, we see that often,
quite frankly, you know, I've been able to go and kind of do some after
action reviews with, uh, with NAMA on particular things,
and you will see, uh, where somebody, they commit a crime and then they
go hide in the bushes somewhere, and oftentimes that drone sees exactly
where they went, particularly if a citizen's able to,
uh, to give us a good description, maybe a vehicle.
Uh, there's been times we've been able to see the vehicle leave the scene
and get, uh, get an understanding of what it looks like and what direction
it went, uh, and then get officers going in the right direction.
How long is the drone video retained and who owns the videos?
So we own, uh, all of that.

[02:00:00]
Uh, the, the, the retention policies really should follow the same as we
have for body cams, and there's really kind of,
there's two answers to that question.
Uh, we don't retain those videos forever.
Often there's a lot of video gets taken that has no additional purpose.
And so, uh, under state law we have certain retention requirements and then
it goes away.
Uh, generally those are about 2 years, um,
but if there's one that gets tied to a specific investigation,
then it gets categorized and needs to be saved so that,
uh, the district attorney or whoever, uh,
wants as something moves into the judicial system has,
has access to that.
Uh, but, uh, but most of the video, vast majority of our video,
whether it's the dash cams or the body cam or these kind of things have
no, no real purpose.
And once it goes beyond the retention requirements by law,
it would be deleted.
OK, thank you.
I have a quick question, Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Ham, are these the same drones they use for,
um, crash investigations.
Is that a different?
It's, it's, that's different.
So, uh, you know, so our, our traffic services division,
when they have to, uh, to, uh, investigate a,
a, a traffic accident, particularly if there's been a fatality or a serious
injury, uh, they'll use those to actually map out and get an understanding
of what happened in the accident, uh, so they have those in their cars.
It's a that's separate.
Yeah, we had a fatal, uh, motorcycle accident by our house back in June,
and I've just seen.
The demonstration at the, uh, at the event they had down in the park.
And it was just, you know, bad luck.
But I was telling my family, I was like, look,
he's gonna fly a drone around the crash site,
you know, and it's really, you know, I hate that that happened,
but it's cool that we have that capability,
but I was just curious if it's the same.
Well, you know, so, and there's really two things that that ultimately that
program is beneficial to, to the citizens.
It's obviously always a very unfortunate situation,
but you know, any time we're having to investigate a fatal car accident,
the road is oftentimes closed for an extended period of time to ensure that
that everything that happened is understood as best as possible.
Those, those drones allow us to measure it much,
much more precisely and get the road reopened much more quickly,
uh, just, you know, so that we can get back to business.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
I would make one comment and council members,
if, if you have not taken advantage of the opportunity to go visit the NAMAC
and see how these drones are used and how they benefit the officers in being
able to respond effectively, uh, for citizens,
um, I would strongly suggest you do it.
It's, uh, well worth a look.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
Motion carries.
And finally, 2020Y is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a
project development agreement between the city of Huntsville and Wonderland
AL LLC for a new mixed use development at Graham Farms.
Motion to approve motion from Mr.
Meredith.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Davis, thank you, Madam President.
Shane Davis, director of Urban Economic Development.
So what is before you is, uh, a standard project development agreement.
We bring these to you from, uh, time to time throughout the year.
Uh, and this is for a mixed-use residential development in the Limestone
County annex portions of Huntsville.
Uh, before I get into that, I, I want to,
uh, for, for the viewers and also for this council and the members of the
public are here tonight, why do we do these public-private partnerships?
So, you know, the city of Huntsville in recent years,
I'd say in the last 10 years we've been laser focused on supporting new.
Residential, uh, but in a way to deliver new housing stock that provides
a variety of pricing and amenities along with new retail opportunities within
those communities we've got a growing community,
you know, 28% population growth.
Uh, one of the things we want is to control affordability and,
in doing that.
So since that time, the strategy has produced thousands of new housing units
and it's allowed Huntsville to remain.
One of the most affordable metros in the US since 2017.
If you look at the bottom of the screen from 2017 to 2020,
we were the most affordable metro, uh, with a population of over 100,000,
and, uh, from 2021 and 202022 we're number 4.
We're currently the last two years have been the second most affordable
metro, so this strategy is working, but the key factors that have,
have done that is updated zoning.
You've seen Mr.
Nunez come before you and talk through that and things that staff has done
to.
Uh, strategically allow us to introduce different and varying price points
without, uh, diminishing quality in, in our communities,
uh, strategic annexations, uh, such that,
you know, we don't get in a position to where it becomes such a market to
it, you know, the list price is only the starting price.
Uh, so we're allowing to bring new product in to,
to keep a healthy real estate market in the community.
Infrastructure investments, of course, and what you're gonna look at tonight,
public-private partnerships.
The map there just very quickly just shows you in the,
in the pink completed projects that the city has some in some way participated
in, uh, some of it may have been just expedited permitting using our urban
development team all working together or,
or a small sewer.

[02:05:00]
Uh, utility extension to making road improvements in,
in the bus, uh, but those are projects have come before this council.
You've graciously approved those.
We've delivered those community, uh, the green area show you active projects
where in some fashion the city is helping,
uh, move those forward in a way, but they come with conditions.
So let's get into the one that you're gonna look at tonight.
So, uh, this is Ground Farms.
It's a master plan, uh, community in the Limestone County area of Huntsville.
So in the yellow box that you see kind of the upper left of the screen you
see the project site will zoom into that momentarily,
but this is a 300 acre development.
Um, Mr.
Graham and his family are here tonight along with the developers.
Uh, Mr.
Graham and I have, uh, had a labor of love for this.
This, this is a project that has been about 3 years in the making.
I can tell you, uh, the Graham family, uh,
this project, this property's been in their family for a very long time.
And one of the things that they said from the beginning annexing in Huntsville
several years ago is we want to deliver a project that's not just another
subdivision.
Uh, so they, they have procured and been very deliberate in who they want
to enter into agreements to one, purchase the property and develop it and
develop it in a way that both the city and the ground family wants to see
that piece of property developed, and we appreciate that.
Uh, so the 300 acre development, uh, is, uh,
we'll get into more detail, provides multiple price points of residential
homes.
Uh, we just have one you annexed tonight in the Hampton Cove area that Thomas
went through the same type process we're working with,
with those landowners and developers to offer that variety of price point
and, and varying density, uh, not say how many houses we can just put on
a piece of property, but really create a sense of community in,
in these developments.
I'll also include multi-family, a town center style commercial office and
retail center, and then traditional retail,
and then also a, a third retail section, uh,
in an area that we refer to locally as Pete's Corner,
but the corner of Mooresville Road and Huntsville Browns Ferry,
which what I would call neighborhood scale retail,
uh, so this is a lot of property, it's 300 acres.
It will take 10 years plus years to fully realize this,
uh, build out.
Uh, I do want to point to the screen again.
You see where the Eli Lilly Project is.
You see all the development that has occurred from an industry and job growth.
So there is demand for housing in this area.
Uh, the green dots you see are active residential communities occurring
in, uh, the Western corridor.
Uh, the blue box that you see is the new proposed,
uh, Huntsville City Schools K8 school site.
Uh, we'll get into more of that in September before this body as far as
land donations and, and how we start to move forward with that.
So again, this is the project site.
Again, you can see, uh, it's at the intersection of Greenbrier Parkway,
Mooresville Road, and along the northern boundary of Huntsville Browns Ferry
Road.
So this overall master plan, uh, that would be implemented should you approve
this development agreement tonight, uh, total residential lots is 1050.
I'd like to refer to those as traditional four cell single family residential
lots.
Uh, then there would be an additional 100 lots,
and this would be something new to our community.
We've got others that are looking, uh, to do this in other parts of the
city, but they would be a 100 lot subdivision or a phase.
Uh, within this overall 300 acres that what we refer to,
you've heard Dennis Matson talk about it also is a 55 plus what we call
an active adult community.
So those are for sale products.
So you would go pick out a, a house plan and pick out your lot and you'd
make that purchase, but they're deed restricted for age restriction,
and most of those come with maintenance free,
so.
The HOA fee, they're mowing your grass.
They're, they're making any repairs.
So it's someone who is at that stage in life where they wanna travel or
they, they just don't want a lot of maintenance.
And, and we've, we've had community, uh, citizens in different town hall
meetings stuff say, you know, I came from a place that we had these in,
in, in this state, uh, so we're excited to see that,
that come into this plan.
It will be our first of many, I believe.
About 85 town hall units and then live work flats 30 units that's very similar
to you may say what is a live work flat um think of Providence,
Maine, where you've got retail on the bottom and then residential up top.
Uh, then, uh, 630 multi-family units, those are in the two orange areas,
uh, and those will be market driven, of course.
The total commercial retail is 255,000 square feet,
about 25,000 square feet of office, about 125 hotel rooms in that pink area
of what we, we call the neighborhood village center and retail area.
I do want to point out the corner of Huntsville,
Browns Ferry, and, and Mooresville Road.
Bottom right of the corner that that kind of sound and color you see is
that neighborhood retail I spoke about.
So really three separate commercial retail,

[02:10:01]
uh, nodes in the overall master plan.
They've done a really good job, I believe,
master planning this with a lot of open space,
uh, as you can see, a lot of public space,
uh, through here, uh, a lot of that was by design,
uh, both with the city and the Graham family and McKinley Homes and,
and getting to this, uh, point.
So that was a lot, right?
That's a really large develop, but I wanna hone in on what,
what happens now.
What is the immediate future?
What I would say the next 12 to 30 months,
it's phase one, and this is what would be delivered to the community.
It's 350 residential lots, about 20,000 square feet of the,
uh, town hall, uh, town square commercial,
uh, the first of one of the two multi-family pieces that you saw in orange.
150,000 square feet of commercial retail.
We already have a lot of interest in that,
uh, one grocer anchor and some others.
So, uh, should you they move forward with this,
and we fully expect you with your approval tonight,
uh, we'll see that start to really accelerate.
Uh, a dedicated dog park, clubhouse, of course,
and then 15 acres of open green space certainly to the people who live in
this neighborhood, but this is a commercial village center type of office.
People are gonna gather in this development,
so that open space is really public open space.
It's not restricted to just the residents that would call ground farms home.
So what are our commitments?
Uh, it's public infrastructure.
We're, we're providing no cash infusion into this.
This is a private development.
Uh, so we, uh, one, agree to provide sanitary sewer service to all three
phases.
We would actually do that in a way where this initial investment phase one,
the sewer would provide, uh, the sewer for the entire development so we
wouldn't come back to council 5 years from now or 10 years from now and
ask for more investment in this community,
uh, project.
Intersection improvements along Greenbro Parkway.
There's 2 of those, and you can see the two main entrances as they come
in, and then a connector road between Mooresville Road and and Greensboro
Parkway to help spur this town center, village,
office, commercial, uh, as you know, we don't really go in and build roads
or anything for residential.
We've asked developers to do that on their own.
This is really to support the activity for this commercial and office space
that we believe is in, uh, demand and grow,
continue to growing demand in this Greenbrier area.
But as you know, we do not bring you a project without,
uh, commitments by the developer.
We, we ask them to go first and we come in behind.
So before we would go do any of that, the intersection improvements provide
the sewer.
Uh, these are the things that this developer must complete before the city
would enact, uh, anything in this project.
One, the developer shall have obtained all applicable permits for the construction
of phase one development, includes going to the planning commission and,
and lots and going through our, our staff and then getting,
you know, building grading permits through engineering.
Uh, and, and then developers have completed at least 50% of the phase one
subdivision lots, so they're ready for house construction.
So phase one is 350 lots.
So 175 lots must be final platted by our engineering and planning staff.
They're ready to sell.
Uh, at least 20 of those 175, uh, residential homes must be under construction,
fully permitted.
And the developers have completed the initial site grading,
completed the building pads and infrastructure improvements for the phase
one commercial retail area.
That's the area that you see in the salmon pink color.
And then finally the developer have provided no cost to the city and necessary
easements or right of ways to construct the public improvements I just,
uh, mentioned the sewer and should we need any right of way in Greenborough
Parkway to put turn lanes in to, to allow the traveling public to actually
get into these retail centers and, uh, naturally into the community.
Council members, I'll answer any questions you may have.
Council members, what questions do you have for Mr.
Davis?
I would just, I would just say this lines up good with Eli Lilly moving
into town, right?
I mean, whoever wants to live out there will have a short drive to work.
I mean, I, I, I, I think District 5's got 3 or 4 options for them to have
a really short drive to work, not a short drive.
look at this one.
It's a short drive, but it's a short drive,
um, heading south to work, but the Swancott corridor is a short drive heading
north to work.
So, um, but yeah, but you're right.
Because it, it's not just Eli Lilly.
There's I didn't realize all of that was right there,
so it's to your point, Mr.
Lilly, yes.
Um, and, and the whole, the time frame for all of this to happen,
so, build out is 10 years that it, uh, we're thinking 10,
it market driven for sure, right, uh, but a project of this nature,
I would, we've seen build out in a decade,
uh, we, we don't have a crystal ball that could take 12 or 15 years should
the market get soft or, or whatever, but,

[02:15:01]
uh.
You know, uh, uh, uh, the first phase is very manageable,
uh, certainly for them and certainly for our city,
certainly for the school that's getting built.
This, this is not a, you know, we're not trying to put 3000 lots on the
ground the next 24 months.
Uh, you know, 3, 350 lot subdivision comes through planning commission pretty
routinely.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
All in favor, please indicate motion carries,
uh, uh.
The motion carries, and that concludes, uh,
item 2.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis.
We have one item for introduction.
This is introduction only.
No action will be taken and will be considered at the August 27th meeting.
21A is the introduction of an ordinance to declare certain real property
located at the intersection of Morris Mill Road and Vintage Drive as surplus
and authorizing the mayor to enter into purchase and sale agreement between
the City of Huntsville and Opian Incorporated.
And again, that will be considered August 27th.
So that brings us to the end of our, uh, business agenda.
The next item on our agenda is second roster public comments.
I would ask that we take a 10 minute break because we have a lot of people
signed up.
So we're going to take a 10 minute break.
We will reconvene at 7:55.

[02:25:17]
Take your seats please.
We're going to go ahead and reconvene here in just a few seconds.
No.
Very nice.
the.
I don't like.
Talk like that.
What's wrong?
I'll give it.
All right, it is 7:55 and we are going to go ahead and the,
the meeting is called back to order and we will reconvene.
Uh, we have a lot of people signed up and,
um, so we will, uh, I ask you if people before you have already said something
you were going to say, don't repeat it, just kind of say ditto and,
and, and we'll go on.
I will call, um, the person who has signed up and then I will call the next
person to speak so that you can be ready to come to the microphone.
Let me read the little preamble here.
The portion of this, this portion of the meeting is reserved for persons
wishing to address the council on matters relating to the city business,
whether or not such items are on the meeting agenda.
Um, those speaking have signed up previous to the,
um.
The comment period.
When called, approach the microphone, state your name and home address,
and city of residence.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers shall refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and from making comments regarding good name and character
of any individual.
The first person to speak is Tamar Ibarra.
Did I get it right?
OK, well, Miss, Ms.
Aybarra, if you will come to the, and also to help us with time,
let's not carry on, um, we're just gonna keep going.
Following Ms.
Aybarro will be Andrew Sullens.
So Mr.
Sullens, if you can get ready, please, and,
uh, Ms.
Abarro, if you'll give us your name, address,
and, um, city of residence, please.
So I'm Tamar Ibarra.
I'm the operations manager at Notorious DOG Dog Rescue at 210 Stoke Street
Northwest.
Thank you.
Um, we are a local 51C nonprofit dedicated to rescuing abused,
abandoned, neglected, and discarded dogs.
We receive no government funding and everything we do is funded by donations
and carried out by volunteers.
I'm here tonight because our rescue has become the default safety net for
a growing animal welfare issue that requires a community response.
Over the past few years, we have seen an increasing number of dogs living
in homeless encampments, particularly the area commonly known as Tent City
and the surrounding blocks, which is where we're also located.
Um, this is not about judging people experiencing homelessness.
This is genuine, many genuinely care about their animals.
The problem is that we are repeatedly seeing dogs suffer because,
uh, their owners are unable or sometimes unwilling to provide basic care,
even after extensive assistance has been offered by us or Huntsville Animal
Services.
Our rescue has provided food, veterinary care,
vaccinations, transportation, collars, leashes,
blankets, spay and neuter services, and even offered to accept animals into
our rescue when owners could no longer care for them.
Unfortunately, our offers of spay and neuter services are almost always
declined, allowing the cycle to continue.
What we are seeing over and over again are animals whose basic needs are
not being met despite extensive assistance being offered.
From January of this year to July of this year,
we've invested roughly $7000 in assistance.
That does not include medication, supplies,
transportation, volunteer time, or food.
Uh, this turns out to be an average of a minimum of $1000 a month and $12,000
a year.
These cases we encounter are severe.
We have treated dogs suffering from pyometra requiring,
uh, emergency surgery, rescue dogs with cords wrapped around their necks,
responded to dog attacks, and taken in puppies that tested positive for
methamphetamine exposure after being found in environments where their owners
were incapacitated by drug use.
These are not isolated incidents.
They are reoccurring cases that consume limited nonprofit resources while
animals continue to suffer.
I also want to acknowledge that Huntsville Animal Services has worked with
us and that we appreciate the officers responding to the calls that we make.
However, our current system is not producing positive outcomes in many situations.
For example, dogs are routinely left tied to the fence outside of First
Stop, which is nearby us, for hours.
Monday, August 3rd, 1 remained there for approximately 3 hours,

[02:30:03]
3 hours.
When these situations are reported this particular day,
uh, at 9:30 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. by me, the response is often that the dog
has an owner and therefore little can be done.
That raises an important policy question.
How is ownership being verified or defined?
Many of these dogs have no microchip, no vet records establishing ownership,
and they frequently change hands within the encampment.
If an ownership cannot be objectively verified and an animal is repeatedly
found in conditions that threaten its welfare,
there should be a clear Barra, I'm sorry,
your time is up.
Your, your 3 minutes is up.
Um, you have raised some really important issues that we didn't,
I, I, I certainly didn't know about.
Our director of animal services, Mr.
Fisher, is here.
If you all would like to go, um, we speak weekly,
multiple times a week, so this is kind of beyond our.
Um, perhaps, perhaps you could arrange a meeting with,
uh, council members, individual council members at some time to,
so we'd have more time.
3 minutes is not of time.
OK, so, so you would be open to that.
Yes, absolutely.
So we look forward to hearing from you.
Please contact the council office.
Thank you all so much for being here with us tonight and thank you for the
work you do.
We'll hear next from Andrew Sullens.
Following Mr.
Sullens, we'll hear from Angelica Condry.
Good evening.
My name is Andrew Sullens, and I'm a resident at 1410 Wells Avenue right
here in Huntsville.
Welcome.
I'm here today to express my concerns with the proliferation of flock automated
license plate readers throughout the city of Huntsville.
These approximately 100 devices create point in time images of each passing
vehicle, creating thousands of data points on tens of thousands of Puntvillians
every day, accessible not only to local police but to law enforcement nationwide.
Flock and HPD fact sheets defend this technology by claiming images are
merely single points in time.
But thousands of data points easily assemble into a mosaic of our daily
travel patterns.
These aggregated data points create a system prone to abuse.
Nearly every day we learn of yet another misuse either nationally or right
here in Alabama.
A journalistic investigation has found over 50 incidents in which officers
have run thousands of checks on wives, girlfriends,
mistresses, and personal enemies.
In just the last month, officers in Moody and Springfield,
Alabama were fired or forced to resign after conducting searches on their
family members.
Block proponents downplay these incidents as isolated and point to the mere
ability to conduct audits as sufficient oversight.
They note that officers must enter a reason for each search,
but neglect to mention that many log entries show vague reasons such as
test or investigation.
HPD says they continue to conduct system audits without any specifics or
past findings.
Beyond the risk of abuse, there is also a clear disparity,
with more affluent wider areas of South and East Huntsville having limited
cameras along 231 and 431, while working class communities of color in the
North and West see dozens of devices deep into residential areas.
My previous commute from Maston Lake Road took me past 3 separate block
hubs, while my new commute from 5 Points takes me past a hub.
If this is truly about safety, does the city not want to protect the people
of Southeast Huntsville?
Proponents point to solve crimes as justification.
But we must ask ourselves if the ends justify the means.
If Huntsville stored all of our digital data,
would we solve more crimes?
Absolutely.
Would we, the people, happily accept the watchful eye of Big Brother for
this trade-off?
Unlikely.
I urge the council to adopt an ordinance banning the municipal use of these
types of integrated devices in city limits.
If unwilling, I implore the council to, at minimum,
set a clear legal requirement for quarterly audits with at least a 20% random
sample size and termination of any employee found to abuse the public trust
placed in them.
I end with a quote from Benjamin Franklin.
Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
The next person to speak is Angelica Condri,
who will be followed by Mariko Darling.
Good evening council members.
Huntsville 35811.
Um, and your name please for the record, Angelica Condry thank you.
I'm here again tonight representing Rocket City Roller Derby,
but I want to focus tonight on our appropriations application because I
know we're coming up on budget season.
I know those numbers are on your mind right now.
We have submitted an appropriations request for $50,000 and obviously whatever
amount the city is able to provide would be helpful,
but I want you to know what that money would actually allow us to do.
We lost our long term venue which was affordable and sustainable for a for
a small volunteer run nonprofit.

[02:35:02]
Since losing it, we have been searching everywhere for a solution.
Parks and Recreation has honestly been a support,
a life support for us this season, and we're incredibly grateful for that.
But basketball season is coming, and we know that we can't depend on those
facilities indefinitely.
The $50,000 would help us actually get established somewhere.
It could help us pay the rent.
And the initial rent in the facility while we get it up and running,
purchasing tables, chairs, and equipment we need to put down a proper track
and make the space functional for our practices and events.
I'm also actively working on securing a warehouse that could potentially
become that home if we're able to make that happen.
This funding could help us turn an empty warehouse into a functional roller
sports facility.
Eventually, depending on what we are able to secure,
we could even look at something like a bank track.
We've talked to other skaters outside the area that have told me personally
they would come to Huntsville specifically to skate if we had one.
This isn't just about roller derby though.
We have roller hockey, figure skating, dance skating,
speed skating, and other roller sports in this city.
There's a community here.
It's just a community that doesn't currently have an appropriate facility.
Huntsville is already losing opportunities because of that.
This year we were supposed to host our annual fall mixer that is 6 teams'
worth of skaters coming from across the Southeast and even the Midwest.
And it's not just skaters, it's coaches, officials,
families, friends, and spectators.
All those people would have stayed in Huntsville hotels,
eaten at Huntsville restaurants, shopped here,
and spent money in our community.
Instead, because we couldn't secure an appropriate facility,
this event is going to Nashville this year.
We also lost the opportunity to host the Yellow Hammer Roller Rumble,
a 2-day statewide tournament that would have brought 4 Alabama teams along
with their supporters and spectators to Huntsville.
So these aren't hypothetical economic opportunities.
These are 2 events that we are actually supposed to host,
and we lost them because we don't have a facility.
When I first came to the city, I said we weren't asking you to simply hand
us a building.
I still believe that, but the more I've worked with Parks and Rec and the
more I've researched what's available, the more I believe Huntsville needs
to start having a serious conversation about a multi-use roller sports facility.
The city has invested in Stoner Park.
You've invested in a skate park.
You've invested in facilities for other growing sports.
I think roller sports deserves that same opportunity.
So tonight I'm asking you to support our appropriations request and to help
us get on the path toward a sustainable home.
Because we aren't asking you to build something for one team,
we are asking you to invest in a community that's already here,
already growing, and that it's already shown it can bring people and economic
activity into Huntsville.
We just need somewhere to do it.
Thank you.
The next person to speak will be Mario Darling,
who will be followed by Kyle Simpson.
Hello, my name is Marco Darling.
I live on Alpine Street in Huntsville, Alabama.
Welcome.
Uh, I also want to speak, um, about roller derby with Rocket City Roller
derby.
I want to say that we're grateful the city has continued to provide space
for our practices and events.
However, the lack of advanced confirmation for gym use has become a serious
obstacle when we don't know whether we are going to have a venue until close
to the event date.
We can't effectively advertise.
Sell tickets, coordinate with visiting teams,
recruit volunteers, or build community support.
We understand that Parks and Recreation would ultimately like us to find
a permanent home of our own, and we want that too,
but sustaining our own facility requires us to grow,
and growth depends on successful, well promoted events.
Right now we're caught in a cycle where encouraging,
we're, we're encouraged to become independent of the recreation centers
while the uncertainty surrounding our current space makes it harder to build
that support and resources necessary to do that.
This is becoming increasingly urgent as basketball season approaches,
uh, when once again we'll face the possibility of losing both our practice
and event space again.
We want roller derby to have a lasting place in Huntsville's recreation
community.
We want to grow our events, bring people together,
and eventually establish a home of our own,
but to get there we need enough stability to build that future.
Thank you.
We'll now hear from Kyle Simpson, who will be followed by KMP Carroll.
My name is Kyle Simpson.
I live at 187 Heritage Brook Drive in Huntsville.
Thank you.
Uh, good evening, Madam President, Mayor Battle,
and members of the city council.
I'm here to respectfully ask for your help restoring my,
uh, access to the Huntsville Tennis Center,
a public facility owned by the city of Huntsville.
I worked at the tennis center for about 3 years while I was in high school,
and in 2023 I was terminated for not completing my closing duties properly.
I accepted that decision and moved on.
However, I have never been accused of any misconduct,
uh, beyond that, and I was never told I was banned from the facility.
Or prohibited from returning as a member of the public.
Shortly after my employment ended, I filed a complaint with the Alabama
Department of Labor concerning my handling of alcohol while I was a minor.
I did so on the advice of my parents because I believed it was the appropriate
way to address my concerns.
I took a break from tennis for about 3 years,

[02:40:00]
and a few weeks ago, I decided to start playing again.
For 4 consecutive weeks, I used the tennis center without any issues,
and uh I even had my racket restrung there.
Then on July 29th, when I returned to pick up my racket,
I was met at the front door by the manager.
Managing director Jock Simmons, who is also my former supervisor,
uh, as I entered the facility, he told me verbatim,
get out.
You do not get to file complaints against us and play tennis here.
I left immediately.
I did not argue or create a disturbance.
I paid all my fees, and I have not caused any issues with the facility or
its management.
Uh, to this day, I still have never received a written trespass notice,
never been informed that I'm banned from the facility,
and never been told that I violated any rule as a patron of the tennis center.
I'm not asking the council to punish anyone.
I'm just asking for its fairness and clarity.
There is an official policy that justifies excluding me from a public recreational
facility.
I'd appreciate knowing what it is, and if there isn't,
I respectfully ask that my access to the tennis center be restored so that
I can continue playing the sport I enjoy at a public facility that serves
our community.
And I would just like to say I've already taken this up with Parks and Rec,
and they said it's outside of their scope,
and I spoke with my city representative, and he recommended I come to this
forum and take it up with you guys.
And I would just like to thank all of you for your time and consideration.
Thank you, sir.
Pardon.
Thank you.
Uh, we'll now hear from KM it says KMP Carroll.
Thank you, who will be followed by Kayden Helbling.
Good evening.
KMP Carroll 15715 Coach House Court Northwest.
Very good, thank you.
This is my first city council meeting and I wanted to know.
What rules are utilized for this forum?
Is it Robert's rules?
The 3 minutes, the 3 minutes are yours.
I do understand that, but I also, like I said,
it's my first meeting.
Is this normal?
When, when did life change where you can't come in and ask questions and
have you answer me?
I don't know if it happened during COVID or if it's just because there've
been other incidents that have possibly occurred.
I, I don't know, but I'm just trying to find out more about my city.
And this is the first time I'm doing so and so I,
I did.
I want to find out what the rules are.
I, I can't bring up a motion or.
Ask you questions so can anybody answer that question?
Ma'am, this is not a time for dialogue.
If you'd like to meet with one of us afterwards,
you're welcome to do so.
OK, thank you so much.
We'll now hear from Kayden Helbling, who will be followed by Victoria Kurznisstova.
Good evening.
Uh, I'm Kayden Helbling, a Huntsville resident.
Uh, I'm the one who has been making the flock records requests other speakers
have mentioned here in recent months.
Uh, 8 months ago, I asked the city for 3 administrative records from its
flock license plate reader system, um.
The log of the searches run by city users,
the log of outside agencies searching Huntsville's data and the data sharing
settings.
I didn't ask for video, not case files, just the usage logs,
records of the state's own LPR rules require to exist precisely so the public
can tell whether a surveillance system is being used properly.
Over those eight months, the city changed its position 4 times.
First, a blanket denial, then an estimate of roughly $1 million a number
they reached by treating a single spreadsheet export as 1.7 million printed
pages.
Then I claimed that the electronic version of the files is impossible,
even though Flock's own published guide walks agents through downloading
these exact logs as spreadsheets, a guide I sent them.
And then on August 3rd, I received a final denial.
The city now says there is no difference between the oversight logs and
the license plate data itself, and that even though it can produce these
files electronically, it doesn't have to.
My only remaining option, they told me, is court.
Meanwhile, Blount County, Alabama has the same Open Records Act,
same records, and it gave a complete flog flock audit log to a newspaper
this summer as one spreadsheet in about 2 months.
The same thing that Huntsville says would cost me a million dollars.
That Blount County log also showed exactly why these records matter.
96% of the searches had no case number attached,
and nearby in Saint Clair County, audit logs,
um, are how one officer was terminated and another resigned this summer
over unauthorized searches.
In one case, searches of the officer's own family.

[02:45:04]
These logs are not anti-police, they are how misuse gets caught.
The CEEGI standards the city brought up in my meeting with them require
this logging for exactly that reason.
Every flock item this council has passed went through unanimously,
mostly on consent without discussion.
Those contracts auto renew unless someone acts.
I believe one window is as soon as this fall,
and the master agreement comes up in January,
and the council doesn't have to wait.
The MOU allows termination for convenience on 90 days' notice.
A couple of weeks ago, council President Robinson suggested the city share
its usage data more broadly, and Councilman Meredith announced a town hall
on Flock.
I welcome both.
And I ask is simple.
Before anything renews, put the system on a public agenda with the actual
usage data in front of you and make your decision in keeping it on,
in, in keeping it an on the record decision,
not a default.
Thank you.
We'll hear now from Victoria Kuznetsova and then from Paul Stansbury.
Is Ms.
Kuznetsova here?
We will then go on to hear from Paul Stansbury,
who will be followed by Melissa Robinson.
It's Mr.
Stansbury here.
We will then go on to Melissa Robinson.
Is Ms.
Robinson here?
James Quarles.
Gloria Vergara?
Is Ms.
Vergara here?
Robert Pope Junior.
Carlos Cole.
Uh, this looks like, ooh.
Dion Pope.
Nope, I may have that wrong.
Uh, Vanessa Martin.
Ashley Wilson?
Angela Somerset Hey We have a winner.
Alright, good evening, council.
Good evening.
My name is Doctor Angela Somerset, and I reside in Chalkstone Street,
Huntsville, Alabama.
Welcome, Doctor Somerset.
This evening I basically have a question,
uh, based on a prior city council meeting that occurred on May 28,
2026.
Our director of finance, Ms.
Penny Smith came before the council and she stated that Huntsville Utilities
Pilot Payments, which stands for payment in lieu of taxes for the electric
side that's based on assets.
Had a deficit of $4 million.
To date I don't know what that means.
She did say that it was based on a tenant change,
so I would like to know at some point who is that tenant?
What is that tenant?
But let me tell you why it matters for many of you in the room,
you know that I am an advocate about the utilities we have all experienced
Huntsville utilities.
But unexplained deficits erodes the public's trust.
In the utilities management.
As well as potentially the council's oversight.
Our councils vote for board members.
I have never seen a board member come in to ever explain any deficit.
And although those boards are there.
They still are elected by our council.
And on August 25th, there will be another election for three of our council
members.
I have asked now for years to make our utility company more accountable
and transparent in terms of those books.
And their ultimate goal is to try to merge gas,
water, and electric.
If we are not getting answers on $44 million dollar deficits in the middle
of the year based on assets.
Something is definitely wrong.
So my concern I've stated, but what I would like.
Is a specific itemized accounting of that $4 million gap,
not a general statement.
Not someone that comes in and just spreads over it.
We need to know as citizens because we own Huntsville utilities.
Thank you.
Thank you, Doctor Somerset.
We'll now hear from Moses Eben, who will be followed by Alex Kim Kimon.
Mr.
Eben here.
Is Miss Kim on here?
And Ms.
Kimon will be followed by Chad Chad Chavez.
All right, uh, yeah, you know, I thought I had more time to pull my statement

[02:50:00]
up before a bunch of people didn't show up.
Uh, hi, good evening.
I'm Alex Kimyon.
Uh, my address is on file.
I live in District 3.
Um, OK, so I'm not sure what happened, but I looked at the minute or the
agenda for this meeting last night, and it had the minutes from the budget
work session on it.
When I looked at it today, it did not, so hopefully I'm not being really
naughty like mentioning that, um, and I was gonna comment quite a bit on
the minutes from that budget work session because there were comments about
the library, um, but Mr., uh, Councilor King,
you actually addressed quite a few of them earlier,
so I'm gonna blow past a bunch of those.
Thank you though for, um, clarifying.
Um, and, and President Robinson as well, the funds that are going to the
downtown library to help kind of spruce it up a little,
um, but I do still wanna stand up for the library board a little bit,
uh, oh, this is the part where I should say that though I work at the library,
I do not represent the library in any way.
I do not speak for the library as an institution,
um, but I still wanna stand up for the board because there were some statements
made in this work session that.
Sort of implied that the library board is um like withholding our like salaries
and stuff um so one of the statements that was made or from the minutes
it's not a direct quote but President Robinson said she had somehow understood
they I guess the library worked with the county but this was with the library
board concerning salaries as well as decisions regarding the building were
a library concern.
Um, the implication being that once the money is in the board's hands,
you know, obviously it's up to them to decide salaries,
and that's true, um, but what we haven't mentioned tonight except kind of
obliquely was.
An acknowledgement about the rising operation costs,
um, including utilities which, while they may not have increased this year,
they did increase last year along with water,
sewage, and everything else, um, and the ballooning population of the area.
I mean, every meeting we're here, we're annexing,
we're talking about folks we're Huntsville is in Limestone County now.
I didn't even know that.
I did not realize Huntsville City is in Limestone County,
so that's two counties now that the Huntsville-Madison County's library
serves, um.
Costs everywhere have gone up and somehow falls on the library to conjure
this money, so.
Anyone who knows me knows that when I smell a rat,
I go hunting for it, and I have no reason to believe that the library board
was lying to us when they said that operation costs forced them to pause
cost of living raises, tighten budgets, and reduce staffing hours.
Uh, I have every reason to think they're doing their best in these incredibly,
trying time for libraries, um, and I think they can continue to do more
and more for.
Now two counties' worth of service population if they're granted adequate
funds with which to make these decisions,
um, the fact is we don't live in a vacuum.
Um, you can give them, we can give the board a certain amount of money,
but if all the costs are going up and our costs of living are going up,
um, I mean, I work 40 hours and live paycheck to paycheck,
and nobody should be living, working 40 hours and living paycheck to paycheck.
Nobody, and I'm a manager, so.
Thank you, thank you, Alex.
We'll hear now from, uh, Chad Chavez, and I believe he is our last speaker.
Hi, my name is Chad Chavez.
I live at 7512 Club Field Drive.
Um, I wanted to speak about flock cameras initially,
uh, but previous speakers have covered this pretty well.
Um, but I did want to, uh, address the concerns about the reasons the city's
given for denying audit requests.
Um, I also requested audit logs.
From the Flock database, um, uh, tracking Flock database access through
open records requests, and they were denied under investigative privilege
the same way the city has denied body camera release in the past,
despite these being pre-generated reports in flock meant specifically for
auditing purposes.
Now, my preference is that these devices are just not deployed,
but barring that, heavy oversight is needed because these databases can
make it easy to stalk unsuspecting victims,
to track peaceful protesters, uh, or for federal law enforcement like ICE
to follow immigrant communities like the ones Mayor Battle thanked earlier
this meeting without a warrant or even without cause.
Uh, to demonstrate the need of an actual council rule instead of vague promises,
I did want to address, uh, the response to public safety policy and procedure
recommendations, uh, previously put forward,
um, after review of, uh, violence against civil rights protesters here in
Huntsville.
Uh, the.
Then police chief promised that.
Policies would be updated and posted through Power DMS.
So that that would be the live version both that the police department and
citizens could view as those policies rolled out.
That is still listed on the city's website.

[02:55:00]
If you click through to the Power DMS links,
that's now a 404 error.
So we're no longer updating these policies that we were promised after this
previous review, we'd be able to see, they'd be kept updated.
Uh, similarly, uh, the Uh, there was requests in those questions for,
uh, data regarding, um, crime statistics across the city.
And the promise was made, even though we couldn't get specific data,
that we would get annual reports that gave that information.
Uh, it's August 13th, and we still don't have the,
the, the newest stats.
Um, and, and so I, I think that this shows a continuing problem with these
long delayed reports.
Um, Uh, and specifically, uh, with concerns regarding internal affairs and
when those are being resolved, uh, we're going,
you know, a full year, but 18 months, if it,
if, if you have an incident early before those are getting reported,
um, you know, much less, uh, anything that can be followed up with by the
council.
Uh, so, you know, again, I, I think that Promises were made by this council,
by me by people who were either on this council then,
uh, or, uh, serving in HPCIC at the time,
uh, that these policies would be made public.
And again, we, we just continue to see that without actual statutes,
we're not going to get transparency from HPD.
Um, and so I asked, you know, I, I, I look forward to the forum.
I ask that you pass something.
Thank you, Mr.
Chavez.
It's good to see you again.
Mr., um, Mr.
Meredith, you are you still having your meeting on September 16th?
Yes, it's actually gonna be a forum and it will be held here in council
chambers at 4 p.m. Obviously, maybe not obviously,
but the public is more than welcome to come.
Uh, we'll be here till hopefully your last question is asked and answered.
Thank you.
Uh, is there any other business?
Do we have a motion motion to adjourn.
We are adjourned.
It is 8:26.
Thank you all for coming.
Yeah.
