[00:01:00]
Good evening everyone.
It is Thursday, June 25th, 2026, 5:30 p.m.,
and this session of the Huntsville City Council is called to order.
We are met in the chambers in Huntsville,
Alabama.
We welcome all those who have joined us here tonight in person and many
who are joining us virtually on several streaming platforms.
We will begin our meeting tonight as is our practice with an invocation
offered by one of our Huntsville, Alabama police safety chaplains,
Chaplain Don Eadie, which will be followed by the Pledge of Allegiance given
by council member John Meredith.
All who wish to do so are able, please stand for the invocation and pledge
of allegiance.
Father, we come before you today at the close of this day just grateful
for your gifts to us today.
Thank you for the gift of life, for the ability to interact,
to laugh, uh, Lord, to have conversations,
to understand one another, and we're just grateful for this thing that we
call life, and we wanna thank you.
We thank you for the lives of the little ones here in our city,
for those who have just been born this past week,
this past month, for the children, we're grateful and we take that as a
stewardship upon them and Lord, thank you for the gift of these little ones.
Lord, we pray for the council members tonight that you give them discernment
and discretion as they work through the issues they have of the evening.
We pray for the public who's gathered here that you would give them grace
and understanding as, uh, the two work together.
Lord we just wanna say that we love you and we pray that you would help
us to love you and to love one another as we love ourselves,
and we pray this in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Amen.
Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Thank you, Chaplain Eadie, and thank you,
Council Member Meredith.
Council members, we have the agenda.
Please note that items 19B and 21G have been withdrawn by the sponsor.
Is anyone aware of any other changes or additions to the agenda?
Is there a 20g for introduction so 19, 19B and 21G we have two items.
Anyone aware of any other changes?
Is there a motion to approve the agenda?
Motion, uh, seconded by the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The agenda is approved.
Council members, you also have in front of you the minutes of the work session
of the city council held on June 1st, 2026.
Is anyone aware?
Any additions or corrections, Mr.
Meredith, if I'm not mistaken, that wasn't a work session of the council.
It was a joint session with the council and the Huntsville City School Board.
We'll call it a joint work session.
Thank you for making that correction.
Uh, are there any other corrections that need to be made,
um.
All in favor or is there a motion to approve the minutes as they've been
corrected, uh, motion from Mr.
Little.
Thank you.
Seconded by the chair.
All in favor, please indicate I opposed.
The motion carries.
4B is minutes of the regular meeting of the city council held on June 11,
2026.
Are there any additions or corrections to those minutes?
Seeing none, the minutes will be accepted as presented.
The mayor has won special recognition tonight.
5A is a proclamation recognizing Huntsville Hospital Health System 1 100
years of babies celebration.
Mayor Battle.
Thank you, Madam President.

[00:05:00]
If I could ask, uh, Tracy Dowdy and Elizabeth Sanders and the whole baby
team, in fact, if they would come forward,
uh, for this proclamation, one that we are very proud to be making tonight.
As they come forward, I might mention to everybody that um Huntsville Hospital
has been servicing our community for over 131 years.
And in 1926, June 11th, 1926, they welcomed their first baby,
Buddy Miller, and that started for 100 years of delivering babies in the
city of Huntsville and this North Alabama area.
Uh, I have a number of whereass, and I've already hit 2 of them,
so I'm gonna save you all those, uh, real quick.
But whereas generations of families have trusted Huntsville Hospital to
care for them during some of life's most meaningful moments,
uh, and I've had that opportunity also with a son born there and two grandsons
born there.
Uh, whereas generations of families have trusted Huntsville Hospital to
care for them during the life's most meaningful moments,
whereas Huntsville Hospital Health System is recognizing the historic milestone
through a commemorative 100 years of babies celebration,
whereas our nonprofit community-based hospital plays a vital role in the
health and well-being of children and families throughout our city,
county, and region, whereas Huntsville Hospital has continuously advanced
the care for mothers and babies.
And whereas the legacy continues today through Huntsville Hospital for Women
and Children, which delivers more babies annually than any other hospital
in Alabama and Madison Hospital, which has expanded access to high quality
maternity care for one of the state's fastest growing communities.
And whereas the city of Huntsville proudly recognizes and celebrates the
nurses, physicians, and care teams, which is all uh represented right here.
Uh, that have impacted families across our community for the last 100 years.
Now, therefore, I, Tommy Battle, mayor of the city of Huntsville,
do hereby recognize 100 years of babies at Huntsville Health Hospital Health
System and honor the extraordinary legacy of care,
compassion, and commitment that has touched generations of families throughout
our community.
Thank you very much for all that y'all have done for our community.
Now Tracy, please give us some words of wisdom,
OK, uh, on behalf of our board of trustees and our senior leadership team,
thank you all.
Thanks to the mayor and our city council for recognizing us today.
Uh, we've delivered over 350,000 babies in our 100 years,
and that's a lot of people, so most people here probably were delivered.
At Huntsville Hospital, if you're from Huntsville.
So we thank you for being here.
I'm just in the way.
They do all the work, so I'm gonna let Elizabeth Sanders say a few words.
Um, I just thank you, thank you for the honor.
Um, we couldn't do this without the team that we have.
We have incredible staff at the hospital and incredible providers.
Um, we're just thankful to play a part into our community and to bring,
um, these lives into the world and help, um,
continue to grow a stronger Huntsville and I'm proud to see where we go
in the, uh, next few years.
Whenever they say, Huntsville's growing and they're growing too fast,
I'm gonna point at y'all.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate you.
All right.
Thank you.
Sure, thank you.
Everybody.
Thank y'all.
Good to see you.
Thank you.
And I will just add that 5 of those babies in that huge count belonged to
the our family.
My, all 5 of my children were born at Huntsville Hospital.
They did a fine job.
Item 6A is a resolution recognizing the remarkable life and legacy of Representative
James Howard Sanderford.
Is there a motion to motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little.
Second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Mr.
Kling, would you like to join me in, uh, presenting the resolution?
We have Mr.
Sanderford's family here.
Would you like to come and join us up here?
Uh, we have his one of his 3 daughters, Peggy is with us,
2 grandchildren, and I will, while they're coming up,
I'll tell you that at the visitation when in January when we suggested to

[00:10:00]
the family that we would like to do a resolution,
they said we will all, they're all from out of town.
We will all be back in June for a wedding which has taken place and so now
we are able to present the resolution in Representative Sanderford's honor.
Whereas the city council and the mayor of the city of Huntsville,
Alabama wish to recognize the remarkable life and legacy of Representative
James Howard Sanderford, who will long be remembered for his innovative
entrepreneurship, unwavering service to his country,
and steadfast leadership in the community.
He had a dedicated following a dedicated military service,
Sanderford built a distinguished professional career with IBM from which
he later retired before founding computer company Leasing Inc.
demonstrating his entrepreneurial spirit and lasting contributions to the
business.
Community, he was elected to the Alabama House of Representatives in 1989
in a special election representing Alabama's 20th district and served there
until 2022 believing that serving the citizens of Huntsville and Madison
County was the honor of a lifetime.
He was definitely a public servant.
Representative Sanderford served in various leadership roles,
including co-chair of the Joint Legislative Sunset Committee,
chair of the House Boards, agencies and commissions Committee,
and chair of the Alabama Legislative Medal of Honor for Law Enforcement.
He was very proud of his service in that capacity as an active leader in
his community, he served on the US, uh, Space and Rocket Center board.
I was past president of the Huntsville Rotary and someone just told me that
half of the members of Rotary were recruited by Howard,
um, his path.
Past chair of the Madison County Republican Executive Committee and past
co-chair of the Chamber of Commerce Free Enterprise Committee,
reflecting his dedication to the betterment of the city of Huntsville,
he was also an active member of his church,
First Baptist Church, where he served as a deacon,
finance committee chair, youth Sunday school director and teacher,
demonstrating exemplary faith and service to Christ.
And whereas Representative Sanderford not only faithfully served his country,
community, and church, he was also a dedicated husband to his wife Dot of
67 years, devoted father to three daughters,
Mary Anne, Peggy, who's with us tonight.
And Betty and loving grandchildren or loving grandfather to 8 children.
Now therefore be it resolved that the city of,
uh, that the city council and mayor of the city of Huntsville hereby honor
the life of Representative James Howard Sanderford,
recognizing years of faithful service to his country and 3 decades of committed
leadership in the city of Huntsville and Madison County.
Due to his prominent influence, Representative James Howard Sanderford's
legacy and impact will be acknowledged and remembered for generations to
come.
his office too.
Thank you for being with us.
And thank you each for being here.
Would you like to introduce your?
OK, I want to thank you all for this.
Anybody that knows my dad knows he loved good resolution,
and so thank you for this and thank you for remembering him.
He and my mom moved here 50 years ago and made Huntsville their home,
and they loved Huntsville and loved the opportunity to serve here.
So thank you very much for this.
Thank you.
Sure, um, well, let me recognize the ones that aren't here before I,
um, my older sister Mary Anne and her husband Chip and two sons,
um, Philip and John and, um, Shannon are not here with us,
and then my younger sister Betty, who is the mother of Caroline and Grace,
and Grace is the new wife of Dylan, yeah.
And this is my husband Morgan, so thank you again very much.
This is very meaningful to us.
Thank you.
Do you wanna say anything?
I had, I had the privilege to know Howard both as a fellow elected official
and also as a news reporter, and he was true blue.
He cared about the entire city, not just his own legislative district,
and sometimes there'd be some tough issues out there,
but he would always return my phone calls and he was a great,
great person for this community and it was a privilege to have known him.
Another resolution for a great community servant 6B is a resolution commemorating
the retirement of Sarah Savage Jones from the Huntsville Hospital Foundation

[00:15:03]
and honoring her profound impact as the foundation's president.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate.
I oppose the motion carries, and Mr.
Little will help me present this resolution.
Thank you.
I actually had an ordinance ready to go to prevent your retirement,
but couldn't get 3 votes.
So, anyway, this is real special.
Um, This, uh, resolution is honoring, uh,
Sarah Savage for great service to the city.
Whereas the city council and the mayor of the city of Huntsville,
Alabama wish to commemorate the retirement of Sarah Savage from the Huntsville
Hospital Foundation honoring her profound service and impact as the foundation's
president.
whereas.
Whereas born in Nashville and raised in Dothan,
Sarah is an Auburn University graduate and has worked in various capacities
serving as the Huntsville Hospital's Foundation president,
including South Trust Bank in Birmingham and Huntsville,
Crestwood Medical Center and Leadership Greater Huntsville,
Madison County, serving as its CEO for 19 years,
demonstrating her dedication to bettering the city of Huntsville and surrounding
areas.
Whereas following her time with Leadership Greater Huntsville,
Sarah began serving as president of the Huntsville Hospital Foundation and
is responsible for its expanded programming,
strengthened partnerships, and deepened impact across North Alabama,
combining her commitment to bringing positive change to the Huntsville Hospital
health system and passion for caring for others.
And whereas under Sarah's leadership, the Huntsville Hospital Foundation
achieved its highest annual fundraising total in the organization's history.
Provided critical resources to hospitals and caregivers during the COVID-19
pandemic, expanded the caring house to better serve children and families
across North Alabama through free grief support services,
obtained its largest gift in history to support the expansion of cardiac
services throughout the Huntsville Hospital health system,
secured statewide recognition.
At the 2023 Huntsville Classic through being named,
uh, Business Alabama's philanthropic Project of the Year and received the
largest one-time grant in Huntsville Hospital Foundation history to invest
in innovative programs and meet today's largest healthcare,
uh, needs.
And whereas outside of our immense success at Huntsville Hospital Foundation,
as Huntsville Hospital Foundation's president,
Sarah is an active member of the Huntsville community,
having diligently served on 21 boards and civic committees,
including board officer or chair for Rotary Club of Huntsville,
the National Association of Leadership Programs,
the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville,
and Public Relations Council of Alabama, and I know,
and early on in her career served on the Alabama Citizens for Constitutional
Reform Board, helping launch the Huntsville chapter,
further demonstrating her passion for community service.
No, this is all right.
And whereas due to her outstanding work in the Huntsville community,
Sarah has been decorated with several awards and honors,
including the Momentum Women, Momentum Women of Impact Award winner in 2022.
The Patricia Haley Charity Humanitarian of the Year Award,
ALP Leadership Lifetime Legacy Award, Rotary Club of Huntsville Vocational
Excellence Award, Women's Economic Development Council Foundations Women
Honoring Women Award, and the Parker Practitioner of the Year,
and the AIB Instructor of the Year.
Now, therefore, be it resolved that the city council and the mayor of the
city of Huntsville, Alabama do hereby commemorate the.
retirement of Sarah Savage as the president of Huntsville Hospital Foundation,
honoring her profound impact on the foundation defined not only by record-setting
achievements, but also her ability to inspire generosity,
strengthen partnerships, and unite the community around a shared purpose.
May this resolution stand as a testament to her,
the significant mark Sarah has left on the foundation,
whose leadership will long be remembered and admired.
Yeah Thank you so much.
I'm so honored, um.
I, I came here 35 years ago like so many of you.
This was, uh, a place that we chose to live.
We had a choice between Atlanta and Huntsville,
and we came here.
I did not know anyone.
Um, when I first got here I wasn't so sure that it was the place for me,

[00:20:00]
um, but honestly within just a few months I fell in love,
and that has been the love story forever.
I've had the privilege of having a front row seat to watch this community
grow.
I've known many of you, um, before you were in public service and watched
as you've grown, um, in leaders, and I, I think we are the envy of so many
communities.
We have it so great here and I hope we never forget that.
Um, because the, the problems that we have so many communities would love
to have those issues, but look at how blessed we are.
I have been blessed in all of my career, um,
with banking and especially, um, with Leadership Greater Huntsville and.
With my wonderful Huntsville Hospital Foundation family and my Huntsville
Hospital family, thank you all to city council and to mayor for your service.
You all put in a lot of hours, uh, countless hours here,
as do your teams and your department heads.
Thank you so much for this honor.
You will be missed.
B come on foundation.
Underachi.
Can I come home?
Yeah Yes.
Thank you for everyone who joined us for our celebrations this evening.
Now we get to celebrate the good work that's being done by one of our agencies.
Uh, item 7A is a presentation from the National Children's Advocacy Center.
Joining us is Chris Newland.
Chris, welcome.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you tonight.
Uh, congratulations, Sarah.
I know they're out the door.
Uh, I'm gonna be, I'll try to be really brief.
Uh, I think everybody on the council knows about the work of the National
Children's Advocacy Center.
We're founded on two basic concepts.
Number one, the only way we can be successful with addressing child sexual
abuse is by having a multidisciplinary team.
That includes law enforcement, child protective services,
mental health professionals, medical professionals,
and that number two, whatever that team does,
it should actually help kids.
And Bud Kramer founded this concept back in the 80s.
Uh, this model has, you know, has grown.
Uh, we're very appreciative of having our,
our wonderful campus at the corner of Pratt and Meridian where you can see
all of our partners that are co-located with us.
A special note obviously to this council is our integral role that we play
with Huntsville Police Department Special Victims Unit,
that entire special.
The Victims Unit is co-located on our campus,
uh, and we work together every day.
We did two forensic interviews today for HPD on cases that they were investigating.
Uh, we also provide a tremendous amount of training for those officers when
they come to the unit, uh, and we have a great working relationship.
You all do have a wonderful Special Victims Unit,
uh, of, of investigators.
So let me say that also would, it would be,
uh, uh, a remiss, remiss for me to not mention.
That this model that started in Huntsville,
Alabama has now expanded all over the US.
There's more than 1000 children's advocacy centers across the United States.
So once again, Huntsville showing entrepreneurial spirit that has literally
revolutionized how our nation responds to child abuse,
and these programs are also operating in more than 40 countries around the
world.
Um, but I don't wanna talk to you about child abuse necessarily.
I wanna talk to you about, I mean, because everybody thinks,
oh, you address child abuse, but I wanna talk to you about the work,
the impact of our work in the long term on human rights.
On school performance and behavior, on economic development,

[00:25:02]
on public health, on workforce development,
and on government efficiency, all in less than 4 minutes.
Uh, so for human rights, first, let me just ask the question,
do kids have the right to grow up free from abuse or neglect?
I believe, every sane person would say yes.
And secondly, if a child is abused, do they have the right to receive quality
services?
Yes.
So literally in this community, unfortunately,
children's human rights have been violated whenever they're abused,
but we as a system must make sure that we're not re-trauma.
them and so we are addressing human rights.
Individuals who have experienced child maltreatment are at increased risk
of educational underachievement, both math and verbal scores,
and they're more likely to have poor social skills and classroom behavior.
So if we can intervene on behalf of children when they have these have had
these incidents and prevent them from having the long term impacts,
great.
They're also less likely individuals who experience abuse are less likely
to have a savings accounts, less likely to own their own car,
less likely to have any kind of stocks or savings,
and less likely to own their own home.
And men who were sexually abused in childhood on average earn 21% less than
their peers who were not abused.
And for women it's 15%.
This is data from individuals who did not receive services.
We're trying to change that so that we increase the economic viability of
this community by addressing trauma in childhood.
Additionally, on public health impacts, the adverse childhood research is
a big study, but across mental health issues,
and chronic disease, the more adverse childhood experiences we have without
intervention, we're going to have more issues.
It also impacts costs.
9% of all Medicaid costs are associated with child maltreatment.
Uh, and the cost of health care goes up when we have more health care issues
for women who were sexually abused it is 16% higher.
For women who are both physically and sexually abused,
it's 36% higher.
So these are numbers that impact the future of this community's health.
It's also an issue with workforce development.
The more adverse childhood experiences a child an individual had,
they're more likely to have.
Absenteeism on the job, financial problems,
and job problems.
So we need to address this in childhood so we don't,
we have a better workforce moving forward.
And finally, on government efficiency, we save $1000 by reducing the duplication
of government activities and having this coordinated approach.
So it's a smart investment for all these reasons,
and I'm under 4 minutes.
Yes, you did.
You told me you could and you did 56 for the record.
So council members, do you, I was timing it too,
uh, council members, do you have questions for Mr.
Newland?
Ms.
Watkins.
I necessarily don't have um any questions for you,
but I do have a comment, um.
As a former educator I understand the importance of the Children's Advocacy
Center.
They do a lot of things for our students a lot of work goes into it that
people don't know about and because of the nature of some of the cases and
the sensitivity, it is a blessing to have this in our community so I know
that you all do a lot of hard work and I just wanna thank you so much and
let you know that we really appreciate you.
Thank you, Councilwoman, I appreciate that very much,
Mr.
Little.
What Ms.
Watkins said.
I think the word's ditto.
Mr.
Newland, when you and I met a couple weeks ago,
we talked about the city's contribution to the Children's Advocacy Center,
and it has some unique aspects to it.
Can you just review that for everybody?
Sure, um, so we were added in, in the outside agency funding,
um, a couple.
A few years, a couple of years ago, uh, this past year we received $50,000
in support, uh, which we are very appreciative of,
um, but we also have a lease with the city of Huntsville that,
um, all of those officers are using about 3600 square feet in our team building,
um, and the current, uh, lease, uh, is about $14 per square foot per year.
Uh, we provide all the pest control, all the janitorial,
all the utilities, the internet, phones, furniture,
everything, soup to nuts, they just show up,
um, and that's if anybody who knows anything about commercial real estate
in downtown Huntsville, that's far below market average.
Uh, market average is somewhere around $25 so.
I feel that fair and equitable is what we're all about,
you know, pursuing justice for kids, but also,
you know, having an equitable rate.
So I, I would love to have see the council and the mayor reconsider,
uh, that, that lease to be aligned with more of current market value.
Thank you.
Any other comments?
Thank thank you again for the really exceptional work you do in a very challenging
sphere.
I know that.
You have to be called to do that work and you definitely have been.
Well, it's our pleasure to shepherd families from a place of hurt and,
and, uh, harm to a place of healing and hopefully to avert these long term
impacts that will drag down any community.
Uh, so I, that's why I really wanted to put it in terms of we,

[00:30:00]
you know, we gotta think the long game.
So I appreciate your attention and again glad I kept my promise under 4.
You really talked fast.
Thank you.
Item A, uh, matters, I eight is matters with outside legal representation.
We have none, but we do have three public hearings to be held.
9A is a public hearing on the zoning of 1.33 acres of land lying on the
north side of Winchester Road, west of Shields Road to Highway Business
C4 District and consideration of an ordinance pertaining to the same.
Mr.
Nunez.
Good evening council members.
Thomas Nunez, manager of planning and zoning services.
This item is located north side of Winchester Road and west of Shields Road.
Petition is seeking to zone the property highway business C4 district,
um.
Which is consistent with property within the area.
This was recently annexed into Huntsville city limits.
The public hearing on this item is now open.
Is there anyone who wishes to comment on this item?
Anyone wishing to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion to approve the ordinance?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
Uh, does anyone have questions or is there a discussion?
Ms.
Watkins, no, no questions.
Seeing none, we'll, uh, then proceed to the vote.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
Motion carries and the ordinance is approved.
9B is a public hearing on the rezoning of 47.19 acres of land lying on the
south side of Swancott Road east of Rabbit Lane from residence 1B district
to residence two district and consideration of an ordinanceance pertaining
to the same.
Mr.
Nunez, Council members, this item is located south side of Swancott Road
and east of Rabbit Lane.
Petitioner seeking to zone the property from residence 1B District to residence
2 district, uh, for a single family residential development.
The public hearing is now open.
Is there anyone wishing to comment on this item?
Please come forward.
Joy Johnson, I live on West Arbor Drive in Huntsville.
Um, I'm wondering, uh, which is a more dense,
um, Uh, a resident residential zoning, the 1B or the 2.
And I'm also really wondering, Why?
Does it get changed at this point?
Um, uh, clearly at some point, it was approved for one thing.
Now they're changing it to another thing.
Who?
wants to change it, and why, and what is the process that you have to go
through to have that happen?
Thank you.
Thank you for your questions.
Are there any other comments?
Public hearing is now closed.
Is there a motion to approve the ordinance?
Motion from Mr.
Little?
Is there a second?
Seconded by the chair, uh, are there questions for Mr.
Nunez?
Um, Mr.
Nunez, would you like to comment on which is more dense,
1B or 2, or residents 2, and why are we making the change?
What is the process?
Yes, so I'll start, um, one with the process itself.
So, um, upon the city council annexing and zoning property,
the property is to, uh, have a zoning district that allows.
For a particular use, uh, through their, uh,
action, petitioners or property owners, uh,
perform or perform an application to us to state what their next intended
uses are.
Uh, for this development they are changing from a Residence 1B district
to a residence 2 district.
The residence 2 district is denser.
Uh, it is allowable to have a mixture of housing stock,
um, particularly this development is, uh,
seeking to petition for a reduction of side yard setbacks.
Uh, the difference between residence 1B and residence two is approximately
4 ft on either side.
Uh, so in residence1B you are to maintain,
uh, 10 ft on both sides of the home.
In this case, in residence two, if it is to,
uh, be approved, then that action would allow for,
uh, a sum of 16 under residence twoB.
Furthermore, within the process, the application is received.
Planning staff reviews that application, uh,
has deeper discussions with the development teams.
Uh, at that point, we, uh, send out notification to individuals or property
owners within 500 ft.
Those notifications are first heard before planning commission,
so the entire process takes approximately 9 months and is now,
so this process started approximately um 75-85 days ago,
uh, and now it is here before you for this particular,
uh, action to review.
Sometimes a denser property results in more affordable housing.
Would that be the case with this?

[00:35:00]
That is also the case.
Now, overall this development has approximately 350+ acres,
and there's a mixture of housing styles.
Uh, in this particular area.
It is a new growth corridor as we've had a significant amount of growth
in our.
Western area, uh, primarily around Mazda Toyota with Amazon and other announcements
that have come, uh, this is the next, uh,
growth corridor with new housing development,
and we wanna put some affordable housing opportunities in this area by creating
denser developments.
However, this overall development does have a mixture of,
uh, housing stock and style.
Thank you.
Any other questions or discussion?
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carries.
9C is a public hearing on a vacation uh of portion of rights of way at Greenbrier
Road and Greenbrier Parkway.
Council members, this is located in Southwest City,
uh, just east of Greenbrier Road, and this is an old,
uh, section of Greenbrier Road that has since been demolished but now still
exists this right of way.
Petitioners are seeking to, it is the city of Huntsville has petitioned
to, uh, vacate this, uh, this section as it is in conjunction with the Eli
Lilly Project.
The public hearing on this item is now open.
Is there anyone wishing to comment?
Seeing none, the public hearing is closed.
Is there a motion?
Oh, I'm sorry.
At this point, no action will be taken.
The items will be considered at 18A and 18B.
We have one public hearing to set.
10A is a resolution to declare a public nuisance located at 6026 Lincoia
Drive, Northwest, Huntsville, Alabama, and to set the date for when objections
will be heard.
Is there a motion to set the hearing for July 9,
2026 regular council meeting?
Move to set the hearing.
Motion.
Thank you.
Motion for Mr.
Little, second for Ms.
Watkins.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
The motion carries.
Uh, brings us to agenda related comments,
and we have no agenda related comments, so we'll move on to comments from
Mayor Bell.
Uh, Madam President, uh, I think the only one,
that I have to address tonight is, uh, the July 4th celebration which,
uh, will be coming in a couple of weeks.
Uh, it will be a great, uh, great celebration of our nation's 250th,
uh, birthday.
And we've had a lot of people who have worked,
uh, tirelessly to make this happen, uh, worked without pay,
uh, worked as volunteers to make sure that,
uh, our community celebrates in a way that,
uh, would be fitting for a country that's hidden 250 years.
So, uh, if you would watch your, watch your news,
watch your paper, or go to, uh, uh, Huntsville.com.gov.
Uh, you'll be able to find all the events that are gonna be done,
uh, with the 250th anniversary.
So thank you.
Very good.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
Council member comments, we'll start with Council Member Michelle Watkins.
Dave's over here tapping his watch and I'm not paying him no attention.
Good evening everyone.
Uh, first I want to, um, say last Saturday we had the Trevor Lacy basketball
camp at John Hunt Park.
It was the first event held at the John Hunt Park,
and let me just tell you we had over 240 kids show up.
Trevor had about 75 volunteers, so just imagine how packed the gym was and
we still had space, but I wanna thank, um.
A special shout out to James Scotty, David Deliser,
and the staff at John Hunt Park for their efforts in helping make the basketball
campus a success and for them doing everything they could do to make everything
just run smooth and it really did.
So thank you so much.
Um, this weekend kicks off Junefest.
If you don't know what Junefest is, it is,
um, actually the 10th anniversary.
Um, Big Lee Adams.
Is the owner of Spokes and Volks, and what he does is he restores old cars
and like the young kids say he tricks them out with rims,
um, they, they have special color paints.
um, he pulled up one day down here in Sydney,
everybody was outside walking around his car trying to figure out what kind
of car it was, but this weekend, um, kicks off the 10th anniversary.
Tomorrow night.
TI will be in concert at the Orion.
Uh, Saturday they will have the car show out at John Hunt Park.
They are going to have a special edition this year,
so bring your kids because they're gonna have a kid-free zone where they're
gonna have activities for them.
And then Sunday they'll have a basketball camp,
and I got a challenge for Mayor Battle because Mayor Wolfin,
Birmingham, Alabama had him trick out a car for him.
A black Cadillac that he rides around Birmingham all the time,
so I'm just throwing that out there for you,
Mayor Battle.
Don't let him come back in your backyard again.
Uh, this Saturday we're gonna have a health fair at the Johnson Legacy Center.

[00:40:03]
It is free to the community.
Um, the city is welcome to come out.
It's from 9 to 12.
It'll be, um, full of, uh, information.
Um, we have several vendors set up to talk about different things that they
offer.
Um, we'll have somewhere to talk there about healthy eating.
We'll have someone there to talk about juicing,
uh, Oak Tree to be there, Happy Health to be there.
It's just a lot of different, um.
Vendors will be there, so please come out and um that's all the comments
I have.
Did I make it in time, David?
Thank you.
Oh no, no, I'm sorry, the main comment Sarah gave me this um tomorrow Martin
Marietta, which is one of um the businesses in North Huntsville,
is having a free community fish fry.
So you can come out to Dawson Elementary between 3 and 6,
and they're frying fish and they're gonna have activities for the kids.
So if you have an opportunity, come out.
Thank you, Ms.
Watkins.
We will now hear from council member Bill Clinton.
Thank you, Madam President.
Well, I guess you could tell I'm a little croaky,
but, uh, I'm alive.
I'm well, and I'm kicking.
Uh, this past weekend, uh, we celebrated the unveiling of a new sculpture
that took place at Mayfair Park.
This is the 5th, uh, public art that I have,
uh, partnered with the Arts Council on using,
uh, my council-directed funding for.
Uh, it was a beautiful sculpture.
In fact, not many people realize it.
Mayfair is actually the site of Huntsville's first airport,
and the sculpture, it has a theme, and it's a flight.
It's a beautiful piece of artwork that was done.
This is in addition to previous artwork that,
uh, we've, uh, commissioned.
Uh, there's a mural at Jim Merrick Park, uh,
sculptures at Archer Park, Westlawn Park,
and, uh, also at, uh, at Mayfair.
Said, so a lot of great things are taking place like the fact that we can
use our Arts council.
They're great for the public and they make an effort and they do great artwork
and they're able to share this with all members of the public.
It's not just in an isolated area.
Um, one little bit of concern.
I see our friend Mr.
Cox out there, and it reminds me that there has been a,
uh, recurring problem on Patton Road with both dumpster garbage overflowing
and garbage carts overflowing and garbage carts being left out on the street.
And at different times, uh, I've been directed to the police department,
uh, inspection.
The Community Development department and public works.
So I guess I'd like to see if somehow we could come up with a policy and
a procedure about which department is actually responsible for those and
how we can make sure that we take care of those types of problems when they
reoccur.
Somebody can have something that happens once in a while.
That's understandable.
That happens in most neighborhoods, but.
There's been a very constant problem with coming from the same players out
there.
So that's something I'd like to work on and see if maybe we could work out
a defined policy so that everyone knows who has what responsibility under
what circumstances and what can be done to really crack down and keep these
types of problems from happening again.
Uh, another little bit of good news, uh, I just found out from the traffic
engineering department that the, uh, long-awaited crosswalk that's been
talked about and, uh, looked into, uh, has,
uh, finally got a date.
According to what Dennis Mattson told me,
the, uh, plan, which is coming through traffic engineering.
We'll be going on Triana Boulevard right next to Fantasy Playhouse,
so it will be a very safe crosswalk for young people to be able to go across
and hopefully we will not have any dangerous situations taking place.
But anyway, that is projected to be completed within roughly 60 days.
I'm excited about that.
And then last but not least, uh, Mr.
Hamilton's here.
And I think he's he can give us an update on Big Spring Park and on the
sculpture emphasis in it.
Uh, good evening, council members John Hamilton,
city administrator.
Uh, yeah, Mr.
Kla asked me to just give a kind of quick update on the construction that
you see happening across the street, and one,
I would tell you that, uh, up there on your floor,
the 6th floor, if you go down to the meeting spaces,
that gives you a good bird's eye view.
So if you ever wanna kind of see what's going on over there,
that's a, it's a good place to see it from,
uh, from up high.
Uh, as you know, we went through the process of demolishing the old city
hall, uh, and are now well under construction.
It is on schedule, I think, uh, you can expect to be at a ribbon cutting,

[00:45:00]
uh, probably March, April of next year.
So certainly, uh, hope to have it completed and,
and available for panoply next year, which,
uh, comes in late April.
So that's, uh, it's certainly on track, uh,
for that.
Uh, some things that you see coming, uh, in,
into shape, you know, there's, there's changes of elevation.
In fact, the design takes advantage of those elevation changes,
and sore wires retaining walls, things like that.
So that structural work is, uh, is a primary focus right now and that's
going well.
But you can also see some of the sidewalks and things going in.
One of the great things, uh, that we're able to do is,
uh, improve some of the ADA, uh, compliant,
uh, travel, uh, through the parking up here to the higher elevations of
City Hall and then ultimately to the courthouse square,
so.
Uh, you see some of the sidewalks going in in a switchback fashion.
Uh, in fact, the one, the one, on the south side that people refer to as
kind of our version of Lombard Street, you know,
but if you're familiar with San Francisco,
uh, but that is an ADA compliant route, and it will allow,
uh, people with mobility challenges to be able to move through the park
and come up to the higher elevation.
So, uh, that's going well as part of that,
as, as Mr.
Kling alluded to, we've also received some questions from folks about the
opportunity for public art, uh, in the park.
In fact, there is, uh, public art installed.
Installations that are in that are part of the design and part of that project,
uh, and it's, uh, kind of creating almost a little bit of an art walk up
that, uh, you know, that Lombard Street style sidewalk so several small
pieces as you go through the switch back then a larger piece up at the top
by the by the pavilion.
So, uh, that's all going well.
It's on schedule, uh, and that, uh, you'll,
you'll really see it's taking shape over about the next 45 days as they
get the structural things done and now you'll see more of the finish type
work happening.
And so you get a better sense of exactly what it will look like.
So, but, uh, project's going well.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Hamilton.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
Now hear from council member David Little.
Thank you, Madam President, and I'll echo,
uh, what Ms.
Watkins said about our new rec center.
Um, that is a phenomenal new facility for,
for, uh, John Hunt Park.
Uh, obviously the pickleball courts are a real big addition and.
You know, what I love about how we operate is,
uh, they're open to the public, but then when sports tourism and people
wanna have tournaments and people travel to Huntsville for everything that
can be done at, uh, John Hunt Park is very exciting.
So hat tip to everybody involved in making that a reality.
And then, uh, real quick, uh, special, uh,
uh, shout outs to public works and water pollution control,
landscape management and engineering, uh,
teams for, uh, being responsive to some citizen.
Uh, concerns and questions this, uh, past few weeks.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Meredith, Mr.
Meredith has no comments.
Uh, then I will wrap it up.
Uh, on June 27th we will have the first of many celebrations for the 250th,
uh, anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
It will take place at Ditto Landing.
Uh, gates open at 5 o'clock.
Admission is $5 per car.
There will be food trucks.
There will be concerts, and it's 1/4 of an Independence Day celebration.
So of course there'll be fireworks at 9 o'clock.
So please come down to Ditto Landing, um,
to see that.
Uh, while you're there, you may notice that the Tennessee River Greenway,
uh, has closed.
It will be closing on Monday.
Uh, the twenty-ninth for the parking lot construction at the event center,
and it will be closed until approximately September 1st.
It will be just closed just around the construction site.
Uh, the either side, uh, east or west will still be open until you get exact
to that construction site where the parking lot is being constructed.
So please be aware of that.
I have several thank yous.
Um, my first is a thank you to Shandria Edwards and the city clerk staff
for conducting an absolutely outstanding municipal qualifying process for
the municipal elections.
She, they, they completely revamped the process and it was very informative.
It made things very clear.
It was very simple and um just done in an exceptional manner,
so kudos to that whole team.
And also thank you to Captain Ricky Stevens,
to Officer Brittany Williams, to Kim Webster from Community Development,
and to our friends from public health for resolving a very difficult,
um, situation.
Uh, the neighbors had been dealing with it themselves by for what,
for a year they finally reached out for help.
We were able to very quickly convene a team to surround them and put together
a plan.
Uh, we learned about, about it from the neighbors because they asked for
help and we responded and the situation has been dealt with and we hope
we'll find remedy, uh, very quickly in the future.
Um, and so then finally it occurred to me today as I was thinking about
the 250th celebration that we're going to engage in this next week and actually
have been all year that that signing of the Declaration of Independence
makes it possible for us to be here tonight.

[00:50:02]
We would not have this sort of public meeting and public discourse and hear
the voice of the people and be able to represent.
The voice of the people without that document and it has inspired nations
and governments throughout the world over the 250 years so uh just need
to be thinking about that.
Happy Fourth of July to everybody.
We'll go on now with the finance committee report.
14A is a resolution authorizing expenditures for payment.
Is there a motion?
I move for authorization and approval of expenditures in the amount of $29,578,387.70.
2nd, all in favor, please indicate a, uh,
any opposed?
Motion carries.
14B is an ordinance approving appropriations goods or services for District
5 council improvement funds.
The chair moves for approval.
Is there a 2nd, 2nd from Mr.
Little.
Um, Mr.
Meredith, would you like to share with us the good work you are doing here?
Trying to keep talking to a minimum, uh.
Um, it is an appropriation for global ties given the lack of federal funding,
and this is something to keep them afloat so that they can keep their doors
open.
Thank you.
Any questions or comments?
All, all in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
Fifth, we have several board appointments to be voted on.
15A is a resolution to reappoint Jim Batson to the Huntsville Natural Gas
Utility Board to his current seat for a three-year term to expire July 1,
2029.
Is there a motion to approve this seat needs 4/5.
0, thank you, and it will require 4/5 vote.
So we will, um.
We will conduct a roll call when we get to that point.
Uh, is there a motion to approve the motion from Mr.
Little, second from Ms.
Watkins.
Uh, all in, uh, we will proceed with a roll call vote,
and we will need 4/5 to approve this.
Mr.
Meredith, how do you vote?
Mr.
Kling.
Mr.
Little, Ms.
Watkins, the chair votes yes, and there are 4 affirmative votes,
so the reappointment is approved.
15.
I'd like to go ahead and change my vote to.
And let the record reflect that Mr.
Meredith has changed his vote tie, and it is unanimous.
15B is a resolution to reappoint Jim Batson to the Huntsville Water Utility
Board to his current seat for a three-year term to expire July 1st,
2029.
This will also require for fifth vote.
Is there a motion to approve motion from Mr.
Little, second from Ms.
Watkins.
We will proceed with, uh, the vote.
We'll start with Ms.
Watkins.
Yes, Mr.
Little.
Mr.
Kling.
Mr.
Meredith, and the chair votes.
I, uh, the motion is approved unanimously.
15C is a resolution to reappoint David Mathis to the Huntsville,
Madison County Marine and Port Authority City Council Place 1,
his current seat for a five-year term to expire July 1,
2031.
The chair makes the motion.
2nd, 2nd from Ms.
Watkins.
All in favor, please indicate, uh, any opposed.
The motion carries.
15D is resolution to appoint Yolanda Sales to the Human Relations Commission.
Place one to fill a vacancy due to the resignation of Ringless Bowden for
the remainder of the vacant four-year term to expire September 8,
2026.
Uh, motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
15E is a resolution to appoint Paulette Risher to the Huntsville-Madison
County Railroad Authority City City Place one to the seat previously held
by Grey Wilson for a five-year term to expire May 22,
2031.
The chair makes the motion.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carries.
15F is resolution to appoint Rishi Singhal to the Early Works Museum's Board
Place 9 to the seat previously held by William Clark for the remainder of
a three-year term to expire June 26, 2028.
The chair moves for approval.
Second from Mr.
Little.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed?
The motion carries.
15G is a resolution to appoint Samuel T.
Green the second to the Huntsville Electric Utility Board,
the seat previously held by Kimberly Lewis for a three-year term to expire
July 1, 2029.
2nd motion from Mr.
Little, second by Ms.
Watkins.
All in favor, please indicate any.
Uh OK, All in favor please indicate aye.
Mr.
Kling abstains, uh, any opposed.
The motion carries uh and Mr.
Green is.
Is appointed.
We have no board nominations.
Are there any nominations from the floor?
Yes, I'd like to nominate, uh, to appoint Wiley Day Jr.
to the Huntsville Police Citizens Advisory Council,
place 13, due to the resignation of Brian Webb for the remainder of a 4-year

[00:55:04]
term.
To expire August 1st, 2027.
Thank you.
That nomination is recorded.
Are there any other nominations?
Thank you very much.
Uh, we have no Huntsville utilities items.
We have two legal department items.
18A is a resolution consenting to the vacation of a portion of rights of
way at Greenbrier Road and Greenbrier Parkway.
Please note that the public hearing on this item has been held.
Is there a motion to approve?
Motion from Mr.
Little, second from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate any opposed.
The motion carries.
18B is an ordinance vacating portion of rights of way at Greenbrier Road
and Greenbrier Parkway.
The public hearing has been held.
Is there a motion to approve?
Motion from Mr.
Little, 2nd, 2nd from the chair.
All in favor, please indicate opposed.
Motion carries.
We will now move on with unfinished business items for action.
19A is an ordinance to amend Chapter 15 licenses and taxes Article 3 sales,
use, rental, and lodging.
Oh, I'm sorry.
This item is already on the floor.
It was postponed from the June 11th meeting.
Yeah, so let me go ahead and read this in.
Noting that it is already on the floor, ordinance to amend Chapter 15,
license and taxes, Article 3, sales use rental and lodging tax,
Division 5 lodging tax, Section 15 of the Code of ordinances for the city
of Huntsville regarding license fees.
This was introduced at the May 28, 2026 meeting.
It was postponed to today's meeting, the June 11th meeting.
It is already on the floor.
We, um, because this is linked very closely with the TIF 9.
Um Work that is being done, we still need to wait for the county commission
to vote on this so that on the TI 9 so that we can move forward.
So I will, the chair moves that we postpone once again,
uh, to the July, uh, to the July 9th meeting.
Second from Mr.
Little regarding postponement.
All in favor of postponing this item to the July 9th meeting.
Please say aye aye.
Any opposed.
The item is postponed to July 9th when it will be considered.
Item 19B is withdrawn.
19C ordinance declaring certain items surplus to be recycled for monetary
value is their motion.
Move to approve motion from Ms.
Watkins.
Second from Mr.
Little.
Uh, all in favor, please indicate any opposed.
Motion carries.
19D is an ordinance to amend ordinance number 25-194,
Chapter 2.
Administration Article 13, control of access to city-owned,
controlled, and leased premises of the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Huntsville.
Is there a motion to approve?
Second motion from Mr.
Little, second from Ms.
Watkins.
Does anyone have questions about this?
Discussion.
All in favor, please indicate.
Uh, any opposed?
The motion carries.
That brings us to 20 new items for consideration or action.
These items will be approved in one motion unless any member of the council
wishes to remove an item for discussion.
The reading of each item will be waived unless the council member requests
otherwise.
Uh, do any council members have items they wish to hold for separate consideration?
Item E as in egg.
I to me.
Yes, anything else?
Uh, and the chair wishes to hold item B and item K.
So be as.
Yes, B as in bravo.
Item B as in bravo.
Item E as in egg.
Item K as in kilo.
Oh, we don't guess that one.
Chair moves for approval.
Of item A.
C and D I F to J and item L to Q.
Is there a second?
All in favor, please indicate aye and opposed.
The motion carries and those items are approved.
We will now move on to items for separate consideration.
20B is a resolution authorizing the acceptance of donations.
The chair moves for approval.
Second by Mr.
Little.
Mr., um, Hamilton, could you please share with us this particular donation.
So, uh, you know council's familiar with,
uh, the area up on Green Mountain, uh, that's obviously well inside of our
city but somewhat remote just based on, uh,
based on the terrain.
Uh, it does have fire coverage from one of our,
uh, career fire stations down at the bottom of the mountain,
uh, but that community for many, many years has also,

[01:00:00]
uh, resourced a volunteer fire department that assists with,
uh, emergency response up on the mountain.
Uh, in, in recent years, uh, we've worked more closely with them,
uh, have, uh, have actually provided some real estate,
uh, well, they really kind of provide it to us and then we,
uh, we allow them to use the, the small fire station that's up there,
but also have assisted them with the equipment.
So one of the trucks that they have right now is one that we actually,
uh, provided to them out of our, out of our fire department,
uh, and it's now time to replace that.
Uh, we think of the arrangement there and then ultimately there,
there is a point in the future where we will need to,
uh, build a permanent fire station up on the mountain.
Uh, so, uh, we've identified the piece of equipment they need.
They did some fundraising, uh, and now want to donate that money,
about $110,000 to the city to contribute towards the purchase of the truck
that they'll use.
Uh, so ultimately between this and then what we have in our fleet capital
account already in the capital plan, we will purchase the equipment,
uh, and then provide that to them to use for emergency response up on the
mountain.
And this truck is unique in that it has the capacity to take water far beyond
what they could get from a hydrant.
There's, there's really kind of two issues that we have to deal with up
there on the mountain.
There's a portion of the development there that are very,
very large lots, uh, multiple acres, in many cases the houses are well off
of the public right of way.
Uh, and so we have to deal with much longer runs of,
of, uh, lines to get water into the house if there's a fire there.
Uh, we also have, uh, sometimes in instances of wildland fires there,
so dealing with, uh, with grass fires and unbrushed fires,
things like that.
And so this equipment, uh, is a little bit smaller and actually more maneuverable
to get into some of those driveways and things over those long distances
as well as helping with the wildland fire.
And I should also add for the record that I hope at the next council meeting
we will see I'm, I'm going to divert $30,000 from my uh council improvement
fund to fleet to help fund this, um.
The new, uh, the new fire truck.
Any other questions or comments from anybody?
All in favor please indicate any opposed motion carries.
20E is a resolution to elect to to grant a one-time lump sum payment to
certain retirees of the city of Huntsville as provided by Section 2 Act
608.
Motion for Mr.
Little.
Is there a second?
Seconded by the chair, uh, any questions or comments?
All in favor please indicate I opposed.
Motion carries.
Mr.
please let the record show that Mr.
Kling has abstained and 4 council members have voted in the affirmative.
Is, is he one of the sponsors?
Yes.
Oh, OK.
20K is a resolution authorizing the mayor to enter into a construction services
agreement between the city of Huntsville and Game Day Athletic Services
for the Merrimack soccer fields one and two renovation.
Motion for Mr.
Little, second from Ms.
Watkins.
Mr.
Hamilton.
Councilor, what's before you is the construction contract,
uh, for renovation of two of the existing soccer fields at the,
uh, the Merrimack Soccer Complex, and it's,
it's in the original portion.
Uh, as you may be aware, that that park was originally built,
those fields were built on the site where one of the,
one of the historic mills was demolished,
uh, and they have always been challenged in terms of the quality of the
surface and the plane because of the nature of what was that on site previously.
Uh, we have been working little by little to,
uh, in, in pieces replace those fields with artificial turf.
Now that that technology advanced to the point where it is,
it's, uh, it's actually been very, very useful to us for those high use
fields to do them in artificial turfs.
We get a lot more use out of them, more durable.
The Merrimack soccer complex, while, you know,
we refer to a soccer complex, reality is it also supports all lacrosse clubs,
uh, as well as.
Frisbee, golf, and 7 on 7 football, lots of other sports,
so the parks and rec prefers to call them multi-use fields,
but the primary use is, uh, soccer, uh, and because of how high use they
are, the natural grass turf there just gets absolutely destroyed at times.
So it's very, very difficult for us to maintain that the quality,
which equals safety, uh, of our athletes,
uh, and so we think the best approach is,
is incrementally replace those, uh, to better condition.
Uh, in this particular, uh, contract, in addition to replacing those two
fields, we're also dealing with some, uh,
stormwater management issues that have existed there on the south end of
that park, uh, as well as some other pedestrian,
uh, access issues and things.
So we're fixing kind of all the ADA issues that surround the fields,
uh, fixing the fields themselves, but then also,
uh, doing some stormwater detention and things that will help with,
uh, with managing stormwater around that park that then flows into the neighborhoods
that surround it.
Thank you for that explanation.
Anyone have questions for Mr.
Hamilton?
All in favor please indicate any opposed motion carries that concludes.

[01:05:07]
Um, Those business items, uh, moving on to 21 new business items for introduction.
These items are for introduction only.
No action will be taken.
They will be considered at the July 9th meeting.
21A is the introduction of an ordinance amending Chapter 2 administration,
Article 4 Financial policies Division One generally of Ordinance 96-864
to add Section 2-160, thereby establishing a formal vendor.
Gratuity policy to provide clear guidance for the authorization and disbursement
of gratuity payments related to the provision of goods and services.
21B is the introduction of an ordinance declaring certain equipment surplus
and to be sold at public auction.
21C is the introduction of an ordinance declaring certain property surplus
to be disposed of per agreement with Managed Asset Recycling Solutions LLC
ordinance number 26-5.
63 21D is the introduction of an ordinance amending Chapter 2 administration.
Article 8, Boards, commissions, Committees,
and Authorities, Division 8 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Huntsville,
Alabama to make changes to the City Tree Commission.
20E is the 21E is the introduction of an ordinance amending Chapter 27 vegetation,
Article Two trees of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Huntsville,
Alabama.
21F is the introduction of an ordinance annexing 2.62 acres of land lying
on the north side of Old Monrovia Road east of Wayne Road,
and 21G has been withdrawn by the sponsor.
That brings us to second roster communications.
This portion of the meeting is reserved for people wishing to address the
council on matters relating to the city business,
whether or not such items are on the meeting agenda,
you, uh.
We have 4 individuals who have signed up to speak at this time.
When you're called, please approach the microphone,
state your name, home address, and city of residence.
Each speaker may address the council for 3 minutes.
Speakers shall refrain from entering into a dialogue with council members
or city staff and for making comments regarding the good name and character
of any individual.
The first person to sign up is Jerry Cox,
who will be followed by David Snyder.
Thank you Madam President.
Jerry Cox, 4029 Telstar Circle.
I guess I was a little surprised that the distinguished councilman District
4 has already talked about this, uh, the subject matter that I need to talk
to, but I'll just give you the rest of the story.
On Saturday, a week ago, it would be 2 weeks this coming Saturday,
I was passing the sportsplex on Patton Road,
as I often do, where there were likely hundreds of sports people there enjoying
sporting games.
I noticed directly across Patton Road where there are three small apartment
buildings, 3607, 3609, and 3611 Patton Road.
On the street just inches away from the pavement were 11 garbage carts of
waste management.
Their lids were open and all 11 were running over with large amounts of
garbage on the ground for those visitors to see for each federal employee
that passes that each morning going to work to see,
including federal employees probably from Colorado,
and I bet they would never see anything like that where they came from.
I initiated an attempt to get the city to address the issue.
And tried for 6 days.
At 4:50 this evening.
That was still all that stuff was still there but probably 100% more on
the ground.
Apparently There are no ordinances governing this issue.
So I guess I'll give up on trying to get the city to correct it,
and on Monday I will seek help from the county health department because
if without a doubt it is a health issue.
I'm sure that flies are swarming all over that place.
And then, and then coming Saturday there'll be hundreds of people coming
from all over to that sports complex to watch them and as they leave the
sports complex, it's right there in front of them.
What a, what a, what an issue.
Thank you, Madam President.
Thank you, Mr.
Cox.
David Snyder and then we will hear from Joy Johnson.
Hello, my name is David Snyder Mick Snyder,
and um I live, my information is correct on the sheet.
I live in Huntsville, Alabama.
Um, I wanted to bring up a couple of things.

[01:10:00]
One, I wanted to thank, um, my, especially my district representative Bill
Kling, um, for the, uh, assistance Bill has given in a,
uh, uh, uh, a, a program that I've been trying to get started,
uh, giving bus tickets to people, uh, exiting the jail as part of our unhoused,
uh, uh, program, unhoused unsheltered housing program docket,
right?
That's part of our specialty dockets that,
uh, Judge Cleveland uh presides over.
And um yeah, we've managed to get several tickets.
The MCSO, I've spoken to Chief Deputy Chad Brooks several times now.
They have expressed that they're absolutely willing to do it.
I believe that uh from what I understand with uh Kling and also Deputy Brooks.
Um, there are tickets that are available.
I went ahead and this week I, uh, you know,
emailed and called, uh, the, uh, it's the court admin office and informed
them basically the judge just has to put on the release that this person
is deserving of a bus ticket.
I think that every participant in the program,
whether or not they're being released from the jail or not,
is a very small thing that our city could do to actually just let them ride
the bus, right?
That is, it's, it seems um.
Uh, uh, pretty reasonable, um, so, but I would like to thank Bill for that,
um, also.
Um, I want to bring up, uh, again, pretty soon we are,
uh, you know, coming up on the June 30th deadline for the Flock,
uh, denial.
That was a, uh, meeting that I had with Kayden Helbling and our council
president and several people with HPD, um,
about releasing, uh, basically search inquiry data with Flock.
Um, it's something that has happened all across the country that was up
for review and it will be coming out on the 30th.
I'm very interested in it.
I put in my own.
Um, PRR records request for it.
I want to read off my reasoning as a citizen of the United States of America
that has guaranteed rights established by the US Constitution and whereas
I have a vested interest in the upholding of my and every person's guaranteed
constitutional rights and protections, such as our right to be secure against
unreasonable searches and seizures that we are promised regardless of citizenship
so long as we tread upon US soil.
I would like to know the fullest extent possible to which my local government,
the city of Huntsville, Alabama, is utilizing,
uh, a network of cameras purchased from the Flock,
uh, Group Incorporated doing business as flock safety,
uh, to ensure my constitutional rights are not being violated.
Um, so I'm really looking forward to that.
There's a couple of things that I am, I like accountability,
right?
Self-accountability.
I'm very big on it.
There's a couple of things that I'm ashamed I haven't been pushing on.
For here, for instance, uh, I have no idea.
We just had those flash floods.
I have no idea how people at this lab have been doing with that,
how that went over.
I would be really interested to talk to Scott about that after the meeting.
Um, also, I know there's still an issue, an ongoing issue of what happened
with London Harkey.
Um, during his, uh, arrest, there was an excessive use of force incident.
Um, I know that for several months now there has been an ongoing internal
affairs investigation, and I'm very interested to see what the results of
that are.
Thank you, sir.
Uh, Joy Johnson is our next speaker and we'll be followed by our final speaker,
Joe Winston.
Madam President, sir, uh, for whatever it's,
I think for fairness, it should be pointed out that Keisha Bryant was the
person, not me, who made that, uh, program with the,
uh, bus tickets happen.
She, she deserves the credit for looking into it and making it happen.
It was a good team effort, I'm sure.
Thank you.
Ms.
Johnson Uh, Joy Johnson, I live on West Harbor Drive in Huntsville.
Thank you.
Um, so I hear you guys talking about July 4th,
uh, celebrations.
So I hope that you're gonna embark on a vigorous educational campaign about
what kind of fireworks are illegal in the city,
and frankly, I hope you will just stop doing fireworks.
I don't think the wildlife.
Gives 2 cents about our 250th anniversary,
and it is very disruptive to the wildlife.
And we have got to start thinking about other species besides us,
OK?
Um, Uh, Mayor Battle, if you do get a car tricked out,
please do something more energy efficient than a Cadillac.
Uh, I, and also with regards to wildlife,
the light sculpture that I heard about at John Hunt Park,
I think it was, uh, that has got to be very disruptive to wildlife down
there.
Will we please start thinking about other species besides human beings.
Um, And here you're talking about.
Artwork in Big Spring Park.
Why are we not talking about a beautiful,
wonderful, healthy, educational opportunity to put in a wonderful pollinator

[01:15:01]
garden on in space that, that therefore won't have to be mowed by belching
carbon dioxide out willy-nilly, OK, um.
Uh, I'm a little bit concerned that, uh, yet again another activist friend
of mine has resigned from the Human relations commission.
It seems there's a problem in that commission in particular,
but that could be true in others.
You might wanna check on it because I know you're concerned about whether
these commissions can actually get anything done or not.
Um And uh Speaking of our founding documents,
we'd have a lot less problems if it hadn't been written by a bunch of old
white men.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ms.
Johnson.
We'll now hear from Joe Winston.
Good evening.
Uh, Joe Winston, 105 Gramont Drive, Madison,
Alabama.
Uh, first of all, Excuse me, I don't have a prepared,
uh, presentation, but let me, uh, Uh, acknowledge,
uh, Council member Michelle Watkins and City Administrator John Hamilton
for taking the time out of their schedule to,
uh, hold a meeting on Alabama A&M campus regarding the Black Art Black History
Museum a couple of weeks ago.
We appreciate that, uh, several of, uh, community personnel were there,
uh, Mr.
William Hampton, uh, Ollie Connolly.
And, uh, staff from Alabama A&M, thank you all very much for participating
in the discussion regarding the Black, Black History Museum.
Now, as we approach 250 years of celebration of American history,
uh, it would be so nice to have a museum that also acknowledges the contributions
of minorities, uh, as well as all people,
uh, that have made Huntsville what it is.
And uh as we go about celebrating 250 years,
uh, just coming up here on the 4th of July,
uh, let's remember all the contributions have been made by people of all
races, all colors, all nationalities that helped make this country,
and of course it helped makes Huntsville the city that it is,
and we're still pushing to have Huntsville recognize a black art,
black history museum, whether it's on Alabama A&M campus or elsewhere and
as we read newspaper, magazines.
Uh, there's very little to nothing that's written about black black art,
black history here in Huntsville, and we're pushing to get something to,
to, uh, see, to, uh, be proud about, and to acknowledge the contributions
made by so many people.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Is there any other business before the council?
Move to adjourn.
We are adjourned at 6:47.
