[00:00:00]
Good evening council member Shane Davis, director of urban economic development.
So, uh, tonight the administration wants to provide you and,
and the public, uh, an update on one of the larger construction projects
we have going on in the city, and that's the Northern bypass as we refer
to it locally, but it's actually the extension of State Route 255.
So remind everybody the overall scope of the project it's 4.5 miles of new
limited access highway, uh, from Pulaski Pike to about 1000 ft east of US
231-431.
Original project cost was $43 million.
Uh, the project replaces the existing, uh,
two lane Bob Wade Lane that was a local, uh,
road both in the city and portions of it being in,
uh, unincorporated Madison County.
Uh, the construction includes the relocation and replacement of utilities,
uh, new water, new gas, electric, and communication relocation,
as I mentioned, 4.5 miles of new curb and gutter roadway.
And then multiple new road intersections along the corridor,
uh, the, the.
The arrow that you see to the right kind of shows the the current stage
as of about 30 days ago.
Uh, I think this aerial shows, uh, a good,
uh, scope of work of what is going on.
We'll, we'll work from the top part of the,
uh, of the photo and down.
So in yellow, the, the two areas you can see the new portion is actually
open to traffic, uh, for, so, uh, to the top of the screen would be Memorial
Parkway or US 231.
Bottom of the screen would be, uh, getting close to Pulaski Pike.
Uh, you can see where the new intersections at Mount Lebanon and Northgate
Drive will connect and then, uh, in the black box you can see the light
gray, that's the old Bob Wade Lane that this road project is replacing.
Uh, I will tell you, uh, contractors and crews are in the most difficult
section of, of the project, and that is cutting through,
uh, the upper, the lower slope of the mountainside.
You can, you can see as we get into some of these,
uh, additional photos again.
This is near Mount Lebanon Road, uh, intersection.
You can start to see on the left hand side the,
the divided, uh, four lane highway coming,
uh, to the west.
And then, uh, just to the right side of the screen,
you can see the old, uh, Bob Wade Lane and the new,
uh, that would be the new westbound two lanes.
Uh, this is the part that is really, uh, we knew would slow the progress
of the project down.
It, it's cutting through the mountain slope very similar to a Cecil Ashburn,
uh, widening project.
The contractor is, uh, hammering and busting rock and processing on site,
uh, for roadbed material, but, uh, this type of construction,
uh, is very slow and for the amount of productivity.
Uh, here, uh, for the next couple of slides I'm gonna show you the portions
that are complete and open to traffic.
Uh, to the left would be going westbound towards,
uh, Pulaski Pike, uh, where Facebook and Meta and Toyota Motor Manufacturing
and L3 Harris, North Huntsville Industrial Park and to the right you're,
you're moving towards the Parkway.
Again, so this is the new 255.
I will point out the two lane road just in the upper part is the old Bob
Wade Lane, uh, that will reconnect, will stay a local portion.
We will, once the project's complete, we will,
uh, identify this road as Council Lady Watkins met with the neighbors,
uh, locally will be called Bob Wade Lane.
It'll have State Route 250 signage.
Uh, so we will, at the point that we dedicate this road comes open to public,
we will need to rename, uh, that two lane portion.
And the Sharp family had indicated they would be open.
Ms.
Watkins has, we've made no commitment, but the Sharp family has lived on
that road for a very long time, so that could be an option.
But certainly this council will make that determination.
Uh, there's plenty of time to do that, uh,
as I move a little further.
You can see the intersection of uh US 231-431 and State Route 255.
When we bid the project, we put this as an early completion or or requiring
the contractor to work from this intersection westbound.
So that's why you see, uh, everything near the parkway is complete,
uh, four-way traffic is, is moving and then we transition as we get further
west as we approach Pulaski Pike back to the two lane as we're continuing
to, uh, do construction.
Uh, you see that, uh, work is progressing on North Huntsville Village or
North Village Town Center, uh, the first phase being,
uh, anchored by Home Depot and Target.
And Food City to the bottom.
So again this is just a a better close up of the intersection that is complete

[00:05:05]
heavy amount of traffic already, uh, getting diverted westbound,
uh, seeing this as an alternate route in the mornings to get to Research
Park, Redstone Arsenal, the western corridor of our city.
Um, Project summary, you know, as uh.
Once complete, this section, uh, will be significant to our community as
far as transportation network.
It will complete a 14 mile loop of limited access highway from Interstate
565 to US 231.
And what I mean by limited access is as we go through major intersections
like University Drive and Highway 53, those overpasses already in place,
uh, so from US 231 to Interstate I-565.
Uh, other than the signal at Mount Lebanon that I showed you earlier and
Pulaski Pike, uh, it travels much like an interstate system.
Uh, project status is about 75% complete.
Uh, we're currently scheduled for the calendar days,
uh, contractually of November 2026.
Uh, we have had, you know, some inclement weather this summer,
a lot of rain.
Uh, this is a federal aid project, so we probably will add some days to
that.
Uh, but as you can see, we're getting really close.
The, the, the hardest part around the mountain.
Uh, tow, uh, once that, uh, rock is excavated,
most utilities are complete.
Huntsville Utilities likes just a little bit with electric,
uh, they're near Toyota area, uh, but most utilities are in place,
so, uh, that's usually the slowest part.
And the good thing is those have been moved now for about 6 months in,
in totality.
I'll answer any questions the council may have on the project.
Ms.
Watkins, yes, one of the questions I was,
well, first of all, thank you, Mr.
Davis for that presentation, um.
A couple of people have been asking me about the Northern bypass.
I thought the best thing to do was just to have an update in council chambers.
Yes ma'am.
So, uh, we're 75% complete, and I was gonna ask you,
but you said we're running a couple of days behind because of inclement
weather.
Do you still, um, project this to be completed in November?
We are pushing both the contractor and engineering department to be completed
by this calendar year.
Um, I will, uh.
Just point out that I know engineering is working through it.
Uh, this, this is probably the best illustration.
So the geotech, uh, naturally showed rock in this area.
It's the toe of the mountain, uh, so it would be what you would expect,
but as you see along the tree line, it's not solid rock,
uh, so the design plans for this project had much like Cecil Aspirin,
we would drill, shoot the rock, and it would leave a stone face,
a rock face along that with no treatment needed.
Um, much like you'd see on Governor's Drive,
that you see on Cecil Ashburn.
Naturally you see that is not the case.
It's what we refer to in engineering is a mixed face.
It's partly dirt, partly rock, so we are working on a supplement plan of
how to stabilize that.
It could be slope paved.
It could be rip rap.
The state will do that.
It's a state highway, uh, so that would add a little bit of time.
But what we're focused on is maintaining schedule of the,
the road itself and get traffic on it.
This would be outside the traffic lane, and we believe could be done,
uh, without.
Uh, not withholding opening the road.
So as we get through the next couple of months,
I continue to update you, but everybody's focused to get the road finished
and traffic going both directions by the end of the calendar year.
OK, and I've been traveling through that road,
and I'll tell you that I have seen that it has come a long ways.
Yeah, it looks good.
It looks really good.
Um, the other question I have is how's this gonna help commute time for
travelers who are traveling to Redstone Arsenal.
So as far as travel distance versus if you live in the northern part of
the city or the northern part of the county today you're traveling US 231,
you're coming through I-565 and then headed westbound,
uh, our traffic modeling, uh, for this project,
which the federal highway requires us to do,
uh, estimates and that's computer generation modeling but cuts 15 minutes
off that commute time.
Because it's more of a direct route, but it,
uh, one of the things I do, I want to answer your questions,
of course, but then I want to give you a quick update,
just two slides of what we knew would happen.
One, this is going to move a lot of traffic which we need in a growing community,
but we knew it was also going to be an economic development generator as
most major arterials do in any city, and I will show that,
uh, momentarily.
I wanna take your questions first.
OK, that's all I have for now.
Thank you for the presentation.
Yes ma'am.
Mr.
Meredith, I just have a couple of quick ones.
Could you show me the reconfigured, uh, intersection at Mount Lebanon?
It seems like it'll, well, if you could just show me that.

[00:10:05]
So it's best here.
Yeah, so I'm assuming where the road goes to the um north from this perspective,
um, that's gonna be the new intersection,
correct?
You know it will, so you, you see the current T intersection of Mount Lebanon,
the two lane of Bob Wade.
So think of.
Uh, that two lane direction of Boadway remaining becoming the new two lane
westbound of 255, you see where the construction equipment and the new gravel
that is eastbound towards the parkway, there will be an asphalt median between
those two travels and turning movements in that median.
So think of a four lane divided highway like a 431 US 72.
Uh, it would act very similar to say Nance Road in 72 in your district.
That's what it will look like.
OK, so turning movements, both turning movements will directly go into,
uh, Mount Lebanon, or will there be like a little U-turn that someone has
to, it, it will be a conventional signalized intersection,
full turning movements.
Excellent.
Thank you.
It was a little, I got misled by that.
Service road thinking that you were gonna drop it.
That's a good point.
OK.
My other question is the tie-in of 565 is gonna be on Rideout Road by the,
the gates to the Arsenal in Bridge Street.
That's, that's right, that, that would be the terminus of State Route 255.
Thank you.
This is a great road project and um I guess next to council member Watkins,
I'm, I'm the biggest cheerleader of it.
It's gonna be great and I can see where it's what it's going to mean to
the community.
OK, now let's say this gets wrapped up roughly around,
uh, November.
Uh, looking ahead, uh, are y'all starting to work plan toward,
I guess what we would call the eastern bypass over towards Highway 72 East
and over to Hampton Cove?
My ultimate goal is the ring road around the city that would take stress
off of the center part of the city.
Yes sir, we are.
So, um, we refer to this as the Northern bypass phase one,
from Pulaski Pot US 231.
We're at, uh, 60% set of planned completion for phase two,
which will go from US 231 to Winchester Road in Mooresville Road.
Uh, we, Cathy Martin and I just got confirmation about 30 days ago after,
uh, meeting with Mark Bartlett of Federal Highway.
Uh, with having federal funds, you have to have what is called a logical
terminna, meaning where you would pick up the next phase and where federal
highway says you can in the next phase.
Well, the issue is, is when you model this and the amount of traffic will
be diverted off I-565 and come through this corridor,
the logical termin would be US Highway 72.
Our argument has been that becomes a significant cost project.
In the tune of $180 million we wanna move local traffic,
so we've been advocating for a year to say let our,
let our next phase two go from the parkway to Winchester Mooresville.
We can obtain funding.
It's a little bit of right away.
They're large track owners, and we can fund that now.
Uh, it's taken a long time, but we got confirmation about two weeks ago
that, uh, Federal Highway is gonna let us move forward with that.
So, uh, to answer your question, Mr.
Clean, we believe that, uh, we can bid that project next year.
Uh, which would get us to Winchester Mooresville Road,
uh, which will help alleviate if you, if you see what we're doing,
even though we got our own malfunction junction of I-565 and US 231,
it's about a $350 million project.
These top projects are, you know, if we can move 15,000 cars out of that
interchange a day and give them an alternate route,
it helps South Huntsville, it helps downtown,
it helps East Huntsville and West Huntsville that come through that interchange
every day.
Because it's, it's the nerve center of North Alabama,
north, south, east, west, uh, so we're advocating for that.
The eastern bypass that would come from Hampton Cove to US 72,
uh, we've completed a corridor study.
We know what the alignment will look like.
We've sent, sent that off, how it will tie to US 72 to LLOT.
Uh, there are actually funding in the C plan to start design plans for that
next year that, that, that you approved.
Uh, they were approved in 2025, but we've been waiting for the corridor
study and getting a, uh, federal highway and now to approve where we would
tie to US 72 before we start the design, and that's occurred this year.
I guess I'm hoping for the day down the line when Huntsville has a ring
Road eastern bypass come around Arsenal East connector,
come back on the ring Road that takes stress off the medical district and
all the other central portions of the city and uh.

[00:15:02]
I think that would really, you know, just remake Huntsville and take traffic
flow improvement, but we're working on all you guys are doing some great
things, not fast enough, of course, uh, all of y'all,
they're all in progress.
Like Um, I think we should call it the cling ring.
That's how we'll just refer to from now on I think you may have answered
one of my questions, and that is you're anticipating 15,000 cars would,
would come off the parkway off and and transition and take pressure off
of the malfunction junction.
That's a great thing.
All right, any other comments or questions,
Mr.
I, I've been instructed to ask or.
To state that uh we can't name it after Bill because he's alive because
exactly so unless you put it in John Hunt Park,
that's the exception.
I think it's time to move on.
Maybe, maybe this council would see an exception for Mr.
Clean.
Thank you so much, Mr.
Davis.
We appreciate that update and the good work,
everyone is so I can have 2 more minutes of this council.
So let's give you an update also for phase one update of North Village Town
Center.
Uh, so as you know, it's previously been announced,
North Village Town Center is a 200 acre mixed use retail development at
the intersection we, we're just speaking of US 231 State Route 255.
Uh, the project would deliver a little over 650,000 square feet of retail,
restaurants, medical, hospitality, fitness,
along with resident new residential development.
Uh, progress is moving.
Uh, the city's almost completed, uh, some relocation of utilities,
Huntsville Utilities' new water line.
They want to go ahead and get a loop in through this project.
There was some sewer that we needed to reroute,
uh, a drainage ditch, that aerial photography that you saw,
a regional detention pond that we want to create.
Uh, all that is about 95% complete.
Uh, so work very quietly has been occurring with not a lot of fanfare,
uh, but the fanfare is about to start, so we are scheduling real estate
closings both with Target and Home Depot in August and September.
So this fall you'll see, uh, tilt up concrete walls start to,
uh, come up out of that red dirt.
Uh, phase one is scheduled to open in 2027.
The whole development will take about three years to complete.
It, it is a lot of land.
Uh, so we will, uh, bust that up into 3 phases.
I'm about to show you those phases, uh, but phase one will open next year.
Phase two will start, uh, mid to late next year.
So they'll, they'll run a little bit in parallel,
uh, as things start to open, you'll see, uh,
new retail hotels, and residential start to,
uh, catch up.
So this is the site so you can see uh some of the utilities you can see
the regional uh retention pond along the TVA transmission lines uh and then
we were required to sell this property to uh remove any structures on site.
So there's some, it was formerly a farm, so there was some barns and things
that, uh, that we needed to, uh.
Demo demo and get off site.
There was an open, uh, drainage public drainage ditch we've put that underground
and and rerouted it to maximize the retail out parcels.
Uh, we could have left it there, but for us the amount of money it took
us to relocate versus the out parcels we would get creating sales tax and
property tax, it was well worth, uh, those utility relocations.
So again, just another view of this you can see Food City,
uh, to the south you have approved so out in front of Food City there you
see some, uh, grass area you have sold one of those,
uh, and approved this council so of Abilene Express,
it would be the far left of half.
Uh, and then we're in negotiations, uh, with an entity to purchase the 3
out parcels that will bring, uh, sit down restaurants there.
We'll bring that to you very shortly, uh,
so we've wanted to wait.
Our phone has rung off the hook, uh, but knowing what we were creating across
the street, we wanted to make sure we got the highest and best use out of
city property, and I think we're doing that.
So let's kind of walk through everything that's occurring around this intersection.
So, uh, the white boxes you see that is the phase one,
you have approved real estate contracts for everything except the two parcels
I've showed you out in front of Food City.
So, uh, the red dirt that you see on the west side of the parkway.
Uh, the, the kind of triangular piece 16.5 acres that you see on the north
side of State Route 255, those are contractually obligated,
uh, to our master developer of Target and then directly with Home Depot
and then master developer for the North side,
uh, once they close in August and September,
uh, the master developer will have the authority.
Uh, to bring more public announcements, uh,
of the actual end users, I can tell you the entire phase one is sold out,

[00:20:04]
uh, so every square foot of phase one, which includes about 350,000 square
feet of retail, is spoken for.
Uh, and it what I would call it the best in class type brand names we all
know, household names.
Uh, phase two would be in yellow.
We are starting to work on that as well as far as public infrastructure.
The far south portion of phase two, Huntsville Hospital is closed on their
property and is in full design for a new,
uh, emergency and imaging center.
It's about a $50 million project, uh, that will break ground next year.
Uh, so they'll be one of the anchors.
And then the other anchors we are starting to finalize with our master developer,
same master developer, uh, with the target as we move west,
uh, flanking phase one and two is phase three,
so we're in, uh, in final negotiations to secure that property and starting
to talk to retailers on, on that piece, uh,
the orange piece to even further west, so that would be the corner of 255
and Mount Lebanon Road.
So we're working with the Harris family and their master developer.
Actually there's a rezoning action on that project tonight,
uh, for a planned development, uh, that we're very excited to partner with
and bring before this council, uh, in the coming months.
And then, uh, to the far right and the last comment I'll make is new residential
single family for sale.
It's called Camden Place, uh, new residential,
uh, community that's under construction.
This is exactly what we thought we could create 5-6 years ago as we kept
pushing and pushing and pushing to get this project.
When I say this project, State Route 255 underway.
I am done.
I'll take any questions.
Mr.
Davis, again, thank you, thank you to your team,
and I know Ms.
Watkins, you must be very proud of this.
I'm absolutely proud and ecstatic, and the only thing that I don't like
about Shane Davis, he won't let me tell anything.
I have shared some stuff, and she swore to secrecy.
She's done a great job with that, by the way we will look forward to hearing
good news in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you, council members.
