[00:00:54]
Huh, said destiny.
OK, OK.
Alright, welcome everyone who has joined us this evening.
It is Monday, June 1st, 2026, 3 o'clock, and this joint meeting of the Huntsville
City Council and Huntsville Board of Education is called to order.
We welcome everyone who's joining us here on the table in the chambers,
or who may be, um, joining us, uh.
Virtually It has taken a little bit of scheduling to pull this together,
but we are very grateful for everyone who has joined us tonight.
The city of Huntsville is honored to host this meeting.
It's been, um, a number of years since we have had a joint session,
and we welcome, um, those who have joined the Board of Education,
those who have joined us, my fellow council members,
um, Mayor Battle, the superintendent, Doctor Sutton.
We have, uh, had a great partnership historically.
We have an opportunity to explore that partnership further tonight and,
um, look forward to learning about how our city is growing,
how we are adjusting to, to that growth and how we can fund future growth.
So before we go any further, um, board president Carlos Matthews,
thank you again for your work in helping,
uh, bring this, make this meeting possible.
I'll turn some time over to you.
For comments.
I appreciate that.
I wanna thank everybody for being here this afternoon.
It has been since 2021 since the last time we've had a joint session between
the Board of Education and uh the city council.
Uh, it is a tough task to try to get all the schedules together to try to
make this happen.
Uh, but we really wanted to show that these two bodies work together for
the citizens of Huntsville to make sure that they have the best education
and the best living environments that they could possibly have with their
tax dollars.
So today, we hope to have some fruitful conversations and get some really
good information on how our city's growing and what our school system is
doing going forward.
So I'll turn it back over to you.
Thank you, uh, Mr.
Matthews.
So the agenda today has been created with feedback from council members,
from board members, and from the public.
Mayor Battle is fond of saying that we want to not just be the biggest city,
we want to be the best city, and that requires,
um, attention to growth and, um, again the partnerships that we've had.
So our agenda tonight is going to focus on how we're growing and that presentation
on demographics and population overview will be given by James Vandiver,
our city demographer, and he will be joined by Dennis Madsen who's here
to answer questions as well.
Uh, we'll have discussion following that.
Then we will have a presentation on the, uh,
Huntsville City Schools capital plan expansion.
Doctor Sutton has agreed to give that overview for us again,
any discussion after that.
And finally, now.
We know how we're growing, how we're, um,
accommodating that growth through the capital plan.
We'll talk about how we're funding that growth and that will be presented
by our director of, uh, urban and Economic Development Shane Davis and again
conversations about that and, and then we,
we will summarize.
So, um.
Anybody have questions about the agenda?
Any comments on that?
All right, we're gonna go forward then and we will begin with a presentation
from James Zandiver on demographics and population overview.
Thank you, Councilwoman.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Good afternoon.
Pull this up.
All right, so, uh, today I'm going to talk a little bit about the development
review, um, go over some, uh, data from last year from 2025,
and give you some, uh, some indications of what's gonna happen this year
and, uh, and, and beyond.

[00:05:01]
So last year we had a really good year with development with development
in the city, with residential development,
um, in fact, in terms of how new housing added,
we, we had the second highest on record.
Uh, I think 2024 was the only other, uh, was the record breaking year.
So we've had a really strong couple of years in terms of residential development.
Um, it's been kind of an anomaly really.
And we are starting to come down from that,
and a lot of that had to do with a with a historic boom in multi-family
housing, um, something we haven't seen in the 40 years that we've done the
development review, and so we're starting to see that with the building
permit numbers that we saw last year, the housing starts,
um, we saw a 2424% decrease compared to 2024.
But then you start when you break down the numbers you can kind of see where,
uh, where the trends are going and we see that our single family detached,
uh, housing starts are starting to go back up.
Um, we had a 2% increase last year even with that,
uh, the, the overall decrease and the overall decrease was mostly because
of that multi-family.
We're still building more multi-family.
We in fact, we'll probably have about 8 new,
uh, developments open up this year.
Um, so it, it, the spigot hasn't completely been turned off,
but at the same time we're, we're going back to historical norms.
Uh, before 2020 our average was between 1000 and 1500 new homes a year.
Um, so that's, we're, we're going back towards that after,
uh, an anomalous couple of years.
Typically I know many of you have seen my development of your presentation.
Uh, a lot of times I talk about citywide data,
um, and, or, you know, sometimes I do district specific presentations,
but this time I wanted to do something a little more useful to,
um, the joint members of the city council and school board.
We wanted to look at the development review by elementary school zones,
so the maps on the left, the green maps are building permits or housing
starts, the maps on the right for the next few slides are certificates of
occupancy.
Um, those are homes that are ready to be occupied.
Um, so I'll start out on the left.
This is, these are, these are total numbers for single family plus multi-family,
and then I'll go in and break them down here in just a minute.
The single, uh, uh, sorry, so the combined building permits.
The top 5 school zones for building permits last year were Providence,
with just over 500 units, followed by Williams,
Rolling Hills, MLK and Hampton Cove.
And then on the other side we have the certificates of occupancy,
the, the homes that have that are ready for,
uh, to be lived in.
Uh, Providence had more than 1200 housing units added,
followed by Blossomwood, which had just under 1000.
Uh, a lot of that has to do with Blossomwood,
including downtown.
Uh, Downtown had several new apartment complexes go in there,
as well as the trailhead development on the other side of Chapman Mountain.
Uh, Morris has mid-city, so that's why you have,
uh, a, a large number of new, new units in that,
uh, school zone.
Williams, of course, has your fast growing areas in Limestone County as
well as around the dirt road area, and then Chaffee in South Huntsville
has Hayes Farm, and a lot of the, the homes in that zone were centered around
that development.
So we'll break it down and look at single-family residential data first.
So looking at the single family on the left,
uh, building permits, Providence, I, I, I'm gonna sound like a broken record.
Providence had the most building permits and CEOs of every category,
no matter how you look at it.
Um, and so Providence was the top, followed by Hampton Cove and Goldsmith
Schiffman.
We're still seeing some housing growth there,
but it's not growing as much as it had been in previous years,
um, but we're, it's still, we're still seeing that as a strong growth area.
Followed by Williams, and we'll start seeing that number creep up over the
next few years with the development going on in Limestone County and then
Blossomwood, uh, rounded out the top five for building permits.
On the CEO's side, Providence again, uh, just over 300 units,
followed by Goldsmith Shiftman and Hampton Cove and Blossomwood and Williams.
So really it's those 5 schools that they just,
uh, mixed it up a little bit on either, either way you look at it.
So those are your 5 schools, school zones that are seeing the most single
family development in the city.
So we'll take a look at multi-family units.
All right, so, as we mentioned earlier, we started to see a bit of a,
a decrease in, uh, multi-family units starting construction,
but we're still seeing a lot of new multi-family units come online just
because they started construction several years prior in Providence,
uh, Providence, Rolling Hills, Williams, and MLK were the four zones that
we saw, uh, substantial multi-family development.
Beyond that, you didn't really see a whole lot beyond a couple of,
uh, duplexes around town.
Um, and then on the certificates of occupancy side though with multi-family,
like I said, some of the, uh, apartment complexes that started construction
a few years prior are now coming online.

[00:10:02]
Uh, Providence and Blossom, we both had over 900 new,
uh, housing units, followed by Morris with Mid-City,
Williams, and Chaffee.
So I'm gonna give you guys some key takeaways,
uh, to wrap this up and, uh, it's a bit of an outlook,
uh, just based on what we've been seeing so far we're already in June of
this year, so we, we've started to see a few trends in,
in 2026, so.
One of the big things is that we're going to see building permits go up
this year.
Um, we've had, we had a really good year last year with,
uh, subdivision lot approvals.
The Huntsville Planning commission approved more single family,
um, subdivision lots in 2025 than they had since 2007.
So we're, we're, so we're, we're, we're doing better in single family than
we have in 20 years.
So that's, that's really good.
That's a really good indicator that over the next couple of years we're
gonna see more single family housing come online.
Um, in fact, year to date we have had, uh,
40% increase in single family housing, um,
starting, uh, single family housing starts,
uh, compared to 2025 up to this point.
Um, we will see our COs go down though because of that lack of multi-family
projects, um, and, but like I said, we're still gonna see a few of those,
and as I mentioned earlier, we're, we had the,
the average, uh, number of units we got per year was between 1000 and 1500
prior to 2020.
We're still gonna see around 2000 homes this year,
so we're still well above the historical averages,
and we're, we're, we're still, we're, we're doing great.
Some near term growth areas I wanted to mention here,
um, just to, to kind of point out some areas that we're,
we're watching for growth.
Providence, of course, as you saw, it was dominating,
doesn't matter if it's starting a home or finishing home.
Providence seemed to have the most, the most homes,
uh, being added and started.
Uh, limestone, of course, with the new school coming,
I know that's gonna be a, a, a hot spot for development.
One that we really need to be watching out for is,
is North Huntsville.
Um, uh, uh, it's somewhat flown under the radar,
though I know last week, uh, there was a,
a city council considered the rezoning of a fairly large,
potentially a large residential development in,
in North, uh, off of the Northern bypass or SR 255.
Um, definitely, uh, that is definitely an area that we,
we see as an area that will have more residential development,
so Rolling Hills, MLK, those zones will be,
uh, uh, we'll need to watch out there for,
uh, potential enrollment growth in those areas.
Hampton Cove will continue to grow, though there are some natural constraints
in Hampton Cove that will eventually restrict the development in that area,
um, and then South Huntsville in the Hayes Farm development that still has
some potential for growth in there.
And beyond 2026, I really think those two big hotspots for growth are going
to be West Huntsville.
I mean, limestone is basically a blank canvas when it comes to development.
We've got all the economic development projects going on out there,
plus the new school.
I mean, it's, it's, it's ripe for, for new development.
And then North Huntsville as well with the Northern bypass and with all
the commercial and economic development going on there,
definitely see the Rolling Hills MLK elementary school zones,
uh, seeing some growth over the next few years.
So with that, I'll take any questions if you guys give me curveballs.
I do have Dennis and Shane with me if there's any problems before we open
to questions, would, will those slides be available to,
uh, will we be posting them on a website,
sending them out via email?
What would be the best way to access those slides?
We can certainly make them available.
Yes, we'll, we will work that out.
Uh, questions for Mr.
Vandiver.
I don't really have a question, but what I would like to have is the data
that that you broke it down there.
I'd like for us to have that on a regular basis as you break that,
you get that information so that the superintendent and the CFO can use
that data to as a plan for our future capital plans.
You want to just have it yearly whenever the development plan is released,
presented to planning commission that you all get it.
Yeah, I think that'll be good enough, but I'll,
I'll ask the CFO and the superintendent what what the cadence should be
if they feel they need it more than that,
but for now I think that will work.
OK, good.
Um, questions?
Um, Mr.
Vandiver, thank you so much for the presentation.
Can you explain, um, to us so that we can re-explain or to anyone watching
how the multi-families were included in the numbers you guys gave for our
capital planning processes?
Um, we know that that multi-families, which is like a different math,
and, and we're taking a lot of hits that we didn't capture that.
And so I just want to know how your methodology into that.
Of course, yeah, so multi-family.
Multi-family works a little bit different,
especially for schools, because, you know,
single family is kind of considered the traditional family home,
um, but in a lot of cases we have been noticing with the data that some
multi-family developments have been having more,
um, more families, and so we, we, we've looked at some of the,
uh, the multi-family in terms of, you know,
whether or not it's, uh, a multi-unit like multi-story apartment complex
versus some of the single family for rent properties that you've seen,
especially off of South Parkway.
Um, and so we, we've been looking at that,

[00:15:01]
uh, and, and the, the school system's been very helpful with,
uh, giving us some data on that, um, on in terms of enrollment and trying
to figure out how to model how, uh, multi-family,
uh, works with the, with the enrollment of the,
uh, of the school system, so.
So a follow up to that question, what is the math for if you have a certificate
of occupancy, whether it's single family or multi-family?
What's the math that translates into we're predicting X number of children
will be coming to the school?
Sure, so when we're, when we're doing population and enrollment projections,
typically our rule of thumb is.
Single family will have 9 out of 90% of single family homes are usually
occupied, whereas multi-family, it's probably closer to 80%.
Um, there's a lot more fluidity when it comes to multi-family units.
Um, so that's what we use on that, um, when we come,
when it comes to the number of, uh, number of occupants per unit,
uh, which is, is pretty important for the,
for those projections as well.
Once again, single family tends to have a higher number,
probably closer to 2.5 persons per household,
um, whereas a, uh, multi-family unit probably has somewhere between 1.5
and 2.
it depends on the area as well.
Like Research Park, we would expect to have a lower person's occupancy per
household.
Um, just because you have a lot of, uh, singles or,
or, you know, couples that live in like mid-city and Research Park,
whereas a place like South Huntsville or Hampton Cove,
even in a multi-family complex, it may be a little bit higher.
So yeah, that's how we project those.
And even when you have that number, you don't know if it's going to be elementary,
middle school, high school.
That's, you're just using a number of saying,
here's the number of people, and we don't know really what age,
so it's hard to tell.
We're constantly getting better with our projections,
but yeah, we're we're, we're, we're, we're,
we're getting there, so yeah.
Other questions, uh, I, I don't have any specific inquiries for you,
Mr.
Vanderb.
I did just want to express.
A, a note of gratitude when you and Mr.
Matson sat down with the board two years back when we were going through
the capital planning process, your, your data and your evaluation was extremely
helpful, and I think today reassures myself as hopefully as well as anybody
watching that your data is also not just accurate,
but reflected in the capital plan that was approved in terms of a long range
capital plan.
We were able to, with y'all's help and assistance from the city.
In the administration identify those near those near term growth corridors
as well as the long term and, um, between a new feeder pattern out west
and a new expansion facility for the Cove area,
um, we were able to address those needs.
So I just wanted to, to say thank you for your efforts and Mr.
Madison as well as your team.
So it's very much appreciated.
Thank you.
Yeah, I, can you tell us a little bit more about your,
like, was any of this a surprise that when you were going back to review
it?
Is this information that you were expecting to have?
I mean, we've talked over the years and can you explain more about your
methodology?
I think, you know, we say these words and I.
Sometimes I feel like it's met with disbelief or people,
uh, don't understand the process or they don't trust it.
So can you give us a little bit more information about the methodology so
we can make sure that we're explaining it,
um, properly and that we're, we're doing our due diligence as well.
Absolutely.
So in a lot of these high growth areas we have known about them for many
years, um, whether it comes, whether it's limestone County,
whether it's out in the Cove area.
Um, and North Huntsville as well, that, that's uh kind of our emerging growth
area up there as well.
Those are not surprises to us.
We, we work with, um, we work on these many years out in advance to,
and, and we, we do enrollment, we, we've done,
we do projections 2025 years out.
Um, we look at all the development land in a certain area,
um, over, we have an excellent GIS department that helps us out with that,
um, looking at flood plains, self development,
uh constraints to development and seeing where,
where development might happen.
And that absolutely helps us out.
And so looking at that, we figure out where the development of land is going
and then um we can do, uh, residential land calculations based on,
you know, if we think this area is gonna be more single family versus multi-family,
um, and so that, so we have a pretty good number or a pretty good,
uh, forecast of where the housing units will be,
uh, in the future or what like an ultimate build out would be in a,
in, in, in a, in in that kind of scenario,
so.
Council members, Mr.
Meredith.
How much of a disruption to your, uh, projecting are big changes in zoning,
such as the one that happened at our last council meeting,
where I believe it was over, certainly over 200 acres of land that had been
C4 are now R2s.
What does that do to your ability to forecast?

[00:20:01]
Well, in that specific case, if it was a C4 going to an R2,
C4 could do multi-family, um, whereas R2 is probably,
I mean, it still can do some multi-family,
at least like town homes, um, but actually probably lower our numbers a
little bit, um, based on, on the forecast of what that we've done for that
area.
Thank you.
Council members, any other questions?
All right James thank you very much for your presentation tonight for sharing
that information and also let's make sure to follow up yearly and make sure
that this that kind of data is available to the school system um now that
we have a picture of growth, uh, let's take a look at capital plan and how
we're planning for that growth.
Thank you, Doctor Robinson, and thank you city council members and Mayor
Battle for always supporting us.
As you see tonight, Mr.
Dane, who is our CSFO, will be presenting an update on our capital plan.
Uh, I want to thank the board for the support and the forward thinking.
We are entering the 4th year of this plan.
It's going very rapidly, uh, with a lot of projects going.
Uh, hopefully we will meet soon using the data to plan the years after this
10 years because we want to keep up with the growth of the city.
So, uh, we'll turn over to Mr.
Dane at this time, but I do want to thank you and your team for always supporting
and providing what we need in this board for their support for this plan.
Yeah, good afternoon.
Thank you, board.
Thank you, council, uh, for the chance to relay and update our capital plan
for you again.
This is a capital plan that we started in 2024.
Um, it's approximately $600 million.
It's actually $600 million plus.
I think that's probably important to realize,
but with that number going up and down, it,
it is dependent on the flexibility that we asked for and,
and, and that we do need as we go through the rest of this capital plan.
Again, 10 year implementation starting with 2024,
um, and the goal of this is obviously to modernize facilities whether that's
for renovations or basic, uh, deferred maintenance,
uh, catching up deferred maintenance or brand new buildings.
And the capital plan does align with our mission to provide a safe and supportive
learning environment characterized by quality staff,
rigorous academic instruction, innovative programs,
outstanding extracurricular opportunities,
and exceptional resources.
Going back to the beginning of the capital plan,
um, we did work a lot with Mr.
Vandiver and Mr.
Madson in the city with Penny and, and everybody to,
to, to get this version of the capital plan together.
Um, as you heard previously, there is a lot of forecasting that goes into
the makeup of all of our capital plans, every iteration of it,
but certainly.
Um, there was a lot that went into this again.
This, this was ongoing up to the spring of 2024 where we held community
meetings and all of our feeder patterns that would have been affected,
which is all of our feeding of patterns.
Um, we solicited feedback in person and online,
met with city organizations such as NACHUA,
the chamber, city leaders, retired educators,
etc.
and then ultimately brought, uh, a very well discussed and communicated
capital plan to the board for approval in May.
And then the court, uh, the DOJ, the court approved our capital plan in
September of 2024.
The funding structure for the capital plan is very diversified.
Uh, at this point, about 60 to 65% of it is gonna come from public financing,
in which case I will work through the finance office with the city as well
as, um, all, all of their team in order to,
and we have worked together to, to, to develop a plan to fund,
like I said, about 63% of it.
And then the remainder of that is funded by local dollars,
local dollars being what we send over from our general fund as well as dollars
provided by the state, so 60% publicly funded,
20% locally funded, 20%, uh, funded by state,
state dollars for the purpose of capital expenditures.
The Capital plan is a phased execution.
Uh, it does align with fiscal capacity.
We can't do everything all up front, so we do have to stagger this out.
Uh, when you stagger that out, you're able to take advantage of,
um, contract availability, schedule availability,
funding availability, uh, because to do this all up front just is impossible.
But we are lucky, we're fortunate to have,
uh, you know, 6.5 million of ad valorum taxes that are collected by the
city for Huntsville City Schools capital growth,
and, uh, that is where the 60% of our funding is coming from,
is from that 6.5 million.
And then of course, we do work with the city,
we work with the demographers, we work with the growth side of the city
to make sure that we are um.
To monitor the capital plan that we are tracking the way we think we're
gonna be tracking, um, as we set out two years ago to go.

[00:25:02]
Uh, there is work happening in every school in every feeder pattern.
Um, not only are you getting, uh, either a new school or a renovation,
but we are catching up deferred maintenance that was foregone for a little
while, which is extremely important, and there's still ongoing maintenance.
Uh, our facilities teams continue to provide just general planned.
Uh, maintenance and repairs to our buildings,
but that's, that's now in addition to the deferred maintenance that we're
getting caught up.
So we're, we're happy that every school and every district district in our
school district is seeing action from the capital plan.
We went over the sequencing of the projects already,
but obviously we're focused, uh, you know,
on student needs first, uh, what kind of revenues do we have to support
capital, operational needs, operational effects to our,
to our repairs and maintenance team, facilities teams,
what are the construction costs?
Are there, are there better times to borrow,
better times to, uh, to get with GCs, to find GCs,
to have a plenty of a big enough pool to,
uh, to bid on to make sure that we're getting the best pricing.
Um, and of course all of those things mean you have to be,
you have to be flexible because we are subject to change and things do change,
but, um, so far we haven't had any big changes,
so that, that we're fortunate that way.
Uh, and then individual contracts and.
And, um, projects are subject to individual board approval.
So just because we have a 10 year capital plan doesn't mean that every plan
in that, every project in that plan is automatically board approved.
We still bring owner architects agreements to the board for approval.
We bring projects like we had an hour ago in our,
in our call board meeting, uh, to the board for approval.
So every project in the capital plan does see,
uh, board approval at, at, at several levels.
As you know, we finished our central office in our HCT,
our, our CTE department, our building, um,
about a year ago now, I think we've been in there almost exactly 1 year
over on the North Parkway, so we're excited about that.
That's a new central office for us and a new career tech,
which is, um, extremely exciting for our school system.
All of our 10 softball and baseball fields have been completed now.
We have, uh, installed turf on every one of those in our district.
And we are efforting to replace the old pod gyms at all of our schools with
a new updated version of, of the gym.
As you can see, we completed those, uh, Champion Highlands.
We still have some in progress and then some future projects that will start
within the next year or so.
Columbia High School, we have, uh, completed our innovation center which
opened in 2025.
If you haven't been by there, I suggest you go look at that.
It's a very, it's a very cool place to be if you're a student.
It's a very modern type facility, um, does,
uh, get our students ready to think about innovation,
technology, business, podcast, I mean different types of tech stuff,
uh, and, and, and hopefully careers jogs some ideas for our students at
Columbia High School.
And then in front of Columbia High School is our GROTC training facility
that we've started.
As you can see, we intend to open that up at the end of this calendar year.
And there's a rendering of it there to the right.
Pretty cool building.
At Hampton Cove and Goldsmith, we have added,
um, classrooms to both of those.
I believe 4 classrooms to 1 and 5 to the other.
I can never remember which is which, but both have seen classroom expansion
to accommodate growth in that area.
And then at Jemis um at Jemison, uh, McNair we have the new 6th grade wing
being added onto the McNair side to the left to,
uh, to welcome our 6th grade students coming in from the elementary schools,
uh, in District 1.
So we're very excited about that.
Part of this 6th grade wing addition, there will be a little bit of an expansion
to the McNair cafeteria serving line area to accommodate those,
those students with the option to potentially,
you know, revisit that CMP, uh, kitchen area further down the road as enrollment
grows.
Super excited for that to open in August of 2026.
Um, a few months ago, we, uh, did Chapman,
um, Chapman and STEM Magnet Middle School.
As well as the Mount View STEM Magnet Elementary School.
Both of those are going well.
I believe uh walls are starting to go up in both schools.
So, yeah, so we're, we're making some good headway there.
Excited for Mountview to open, uh, August of next year.
Huntsville Middle School, we just, um.
Got board approval to, to start that construction here a little while ago.
Excited for that to start in August of 2028.

[00:30:01]
Our new Limestone County School will be a P8,
um, out in, um, East Limestone County, which is West Huntsville.
Slated to open August 2028.
And of course we've recently worked with the city to acquire property in
Hampton Cove for a future site.
Um, we don't exactly know what that's gonna be yet,
but it's likely, uh, you know, an elementary or middle school depending
on, you know, what the continued work with the city produces for us to contemplate
over the next several years, but something to open,
you know, around August 2033.
And that's all I have for the presentation if you have any questions.
Discussion.
Council members.
Mr.
Meredith.
When can we expect to do the groundbreaking for the Limestone County School?
We're hoping this fall.
Don't know exactly which month yet, but we need to probably get going on
that ASAP.
So I would say, I think somewhere around September,
October time frame is where our schedule shows us.
Raiders does that sound right?
OK.
And generally speaking, who wins the contracts on school building?
The low bid.
No, I mean, who is getting the low bid?
What company is currently engaged in building schools?
doesn't Yeah, Yeah, so we, do you have an idea of which contractors will
be available to bid on that?
I mean, we really don't know on that.
Yeah, it's gonna be the typical names Lee,
F, Pierce.
Others, I don't know that yet.
I mean, a lot of them that answers my question.
I think between the city and us we're keeping our local builders pretty
busy, so we do have to keep, uh, uh, keep abreast of that kind of where
I was trying to figure out is which one of if it was gonna be a local,
um, I, I know the low bidder gets it regardless,
but, um, historically has it been local folks that we have ongoing.
Relationships with versus someone that comes in that we've maybe only built
one or two schools or did one or two renovations,
historically it is local for for the most part local contractors.
Thank you, sir.
Yes sir.
Board members Ms.
Alvarez, um, Mr.
Dane, thank you.
The one thing that we didn't capture in this is,
um, you know, that there are school consolidations that also came in that
capital plan.
Um, I just wanted to, to say, you know, on the record that we had 24,000
students 10 years ago, we roughly have that same amount now.
What we're seeing is they're in different areas.
And so, you know, because of that, that ultimately leads to us having to
close three schools and consolidate students.
So I think it's just imperative that as we continue to grow,
we have to realize that the schools are adapting the best they can with
the same enrollment that they've had for a long time.
Yeah, that's very fair to say, and we continue to work with the city and
uh what they project for enrollment and growth in areas around to continue
to inform our plans.
So again, another reason for the flexibility is to,
to not lock in something now but be able to see over the next couple of
2345, 10 years what that looks like.
So you know, in our capital plan there's consideration for expansion and,
and otherwise.
Mr.
not, yeah, if I can, to, to Ms.
Alvarez's point, this isn't directed at you,
Mr.
Dane, but just for general purposes and awareness for constituents watching,
you know, Mr.
Vandiver, Mr.
Madsen.
McGuffy and Mr.
Davis and the entire city administration do a great job in supplying us
and making sure that we're, we are well resourced to analyze that data for
capital planning purposes.
There, I think that it's important to acknowledge an additional layer of
context, which is the current funding mechanism for public education is
such that we can only build based on enrollment.
So while you may see 4000 single-family units and 14,000 multi-family units
pop up over the course of 24 to 48 months in the city limits of Huntsville,
one, there's other education opportunities that families are taking advantage
of outside of the public system.
And two, those units don't always translate to students and seats in K-12
classroom environments.
And so.
I just think it's important for the general public to understand that while
your administration does a fantastic job on organizing and analyzing that
data, it's not an exact science and it's not a perfect science,
but, um, we're very thankful for, for the job that you guys do with us.
So just an additional layer of context, I think is important to acknowledge
for folks.
Thank you for sharing that.
Um, might I also ask what impact the court order.
Has on facilities and facilities is one of the green factors.
Where are we on that and how does that fit into this capital plan?
Well, we are working under a court approved capital plan now,
so we need major change, and I don't know what the definition of major equals,
but any major change to it would, would require court approval.

[00:35:04]
And the court has approved this capital plan and so we will be sticking
with this capital plan as the court has approved it,
correct?
Yes, ma'am.
How close are we to getting clearance on that?
We're waiting, um, we have submitted, um,
the court did meet with our team and the DAC,
and so we're hoping within the next few months that we do receive that order
for facilities.
Thank you.
And then can I just say we're tracking on our,
um, capital protections.
I mean, we're on track.
There's not been any unanticipated hurdles.
Uh, no, um, hurdles, no, but there's always,
there are always things that'll that'll cause us to pivot,
so, um.
Nothing major as of.
An hour ago we will be at about 55% under contract of the entire capital
plan as of the limestone County project will be about 60 to 3,
65% um under contract for the capital plan,
which means we have a handful more major renovations,
um, a handful more new constructed buildings.
And, um, and then again, just the deferred maintenance.
So, no, we're tracking right where we need to be funding wise as well.
All right, if there are no other comments or questions,
thank you very much, Mr.
Dane.
Uh, we will now hear, uh, so we've talked about how we're growing,
how that growth is being accommodated with the capital plan.
Our next piece is the funding because nothing happens without funding.
And our, uh, director of Urban and Economic Development,
Shane Davis will lead us in that discussion.
Thank you, Madam President, Mayor Battle,
Doctor Sutton, school board members, city council,
good afternoon.
Thank you for this opportunity to, to brief you all in one setting.
Uh, I think it's a unique opportunity for both of you guys and also for
the general public.
Uh, as you're aware, there's a proposed TIF 9 district that both the Mass
County Commission, the city council body,
uh, will take up, uh, in the next few weeks.
I don't wanna get into that, but before that,
I wanna talk about TI districts in general.
Uh, most of this body here, uh, it's been quite a while since we've introduced
a TIF district in Madison County.
Uh, in recent years, we've introduced a couple in Limestone County.
One of those is closed out.
So I thought it'd be a good refresher just to go through,
uh, TI districts where we've been and where we're going and the benefits
those have brought to our community, both to the school board and the city
council, and then get more specifically into that TI 9 district,
OK.
So just kind of what I just, uh, reiterated,
what is a TIFF district, uh, our history of TIFF districts in Huntsville
and those successes, and then we'll get into TIFF District 9 that's being
proposed.
So what is a tiff district?
The creation of a tax increment financing or TIFF district is a tool that
allows municipalities to complete public infrastructure improvements.
Uh, by using increment tax revenue or future revenue streams,
not any existing revenue streams within that district,
those existing revenue streams continue to flow through the tax recipients
as they do today.
Uh, the principle is very simple.
The city makes public, uh, improvements in a defined geographic area,
the district, if you will.
With the intent of stimulating new private investment or new economic development
within that district or that boundary, uh,
as new development occurs, the taxable value or that new tax base that's
being created by those new investments go with stay within the district
to pay off projects if they're paid for by cash or the or debt service.
And then as you roll through that and you pay off those bonds or you pay
off that project, uh, the TI district is closed and all new tax recipients
or the tax recipients receive their proportion of those new taxes that were
created as a result of those public investments.
Uh, one misunderstanding that sometimes people think is,
are we increasing taxes?
No.
Uh, by the Alabama Constitution, it takes a vote of the people to increase
any property tax, i.e., the millage rate for Madison County.
For all of us combined, it's 58 mils.
Uh, the creation of Tith District keeps that millage at 58 mils.
Uh, the.
The city of Huntsville administration or the city council adjust anybody's
property taxes.
We actually have elected officials, the county tax assessor that evaluates
all taxes within the county and provides that assessment.
So the city council nor the Madison County commission passing a TI district

[00:40:02]
does nothing to affect one's individuality of their tax base.
That's done by the tax assessor.
Lastly, no, as I've mentioned, no existing tax revenues dedicated for schools.
The county or city budgets were reduced, um,
or diverted within a tip district.
It's only the new tax base or the increment growth within that district
that is captured.
We'll get into that, uh, for Tiff Nunn in very specifics.
Since 2000, uh, the city of Huntsville, as you can see on the screen,
has completed several TIFF, uh, districts.
The ones that you see kind of grayed out TIFS 123384,
and 6 have been closed.
TIFF 5 is Redstone Arsenal, which is active.
TIFF 7 that was created in Limestone County as a result of the Mazda Toyota.
Uh, economic development project is active.
We are considering administration of, uh,
with Limestone County Commission of future,
uh, TI-8 in Limestone County, and then we'll get into the proposed TIF 9
district here in Madison County.
So this is a list of those tips that I just showed you on the screen and,
and when they were established, the number of years it took for them to
close out and the public improvements that were put in those TIFF districts.
So we'll go through those, uh, TIF one was,
uh, the very first one this the city ever did.
It was really small.
Uh, in it's, uh, way as far as its boundary,
but the, the improvements were very large.
Uh, it was US Highway 72 widening from essentially just east of Research
Park Boulevard to just west of Providence,
Maine.
And then the widening and the improvements McMurtry Drive this brought the
Target center, if you've been out in that general area,
um, it was a former junkyard.
Uh, and we, we saw massive investment along there,
new tax base created, but it did take a while to close.
Uh, it was one of our first, and, and we've gotten better,
as you can see, uh, through that experience.
TF2, uh, helped build a new Huntsville High School and a public parking
garage for Parkway Place Mall.
Uh, it was created in 2000.
It took about 5 years.
We saw a mass improvement along the Parkway and capital investment,
uh, in and around that medical district area.
TI 3, constructed a new Providence Elementary School and New Columbia High
School, made improvements to Farrell Road and Old Monrovia improvements
in and around Research Park.
Uh, that district, uh, was created again in 2000 and took 18 years to complete.
Now I do want to point out by the statute,
Alabama statute, uh, TIFF district, uh, maximum term is 30 years.
So you can see all of these have accelerated,
uh, much early closure.
TIF 3A provided $12 million to Huntsville City Schools for various school
improvements, uh, uh, built, uh, the first phase of the Northern bypass,
the new North Huntsville Industrial Park that gave way to Toyota engine
plant and now a plethora of industry up there and the way Mountain Preserve
expansion, our first greenway in that District One and,
and, uh, trailhead.
TI 4 again you kind of see the theme in blue of,
of, you know, understanding what the TIFF does as far as,
uh, to our tax recipients and trying to build in projects where we can,
uh, to, to yield to that deferred tax recipient.
TIFF 4, was, was no exception with $13 million in school improvements to
both Lee and Butler High Schools, uh, expansion of the art museum,
some minor improvements to the von Braun Center.
A new downtown public safety precinct which uh combined police and fire
for downtown allowed us to kind of get better service throughout the entire
city by building that facility and then redrawing the response or uh boundaries
for public safety, uh, courthouse improvements and then Harris Hill Boulevard
that gave way to east side of, uh, Highway 72 East.
Now we're, we're seeing, uh, growth in that area.
Uh, 9 years to closure, uh, was created in 2006.
TIFF 5 is one of our active TIFs.
It was Redstone Gateway Park in partnership with the garrison on Redstone
Arsenal and produced, uh, Redstone Gateway Park.
Uh, TI 6 is also closed, uh, included Chase Farm Road,
Greenborough Parkway, sewer improvements,
and I do want to circle back to this.
It, it proposed a new K-8 school.
Uh, in Limestone County, uh, when we created that TIFF a few years later,
it was determined, uh, based on rooftops and the feasibility of Huntsville
City Schools moving forward with that to delay that,
uh, TIF 88, as I mentioned, we are evaluating,
could possibly bring that project back into that future TIFF district.
Uh, one of the things I do want to discuss about,
uh, TIFF districts, although they have a term of 30 years that they must
be closed out, all projects must start in the 1st 5 years.

[00:45:02]
Any project that hasn't started within that time period rolls out of the,
uh, its qualifications.
So that was the case with this K-8 school,
um.
So, um, in, in 2015, and there's a, uh, error there,
it says 20 years, uh, that project closed out,
uh, several years ago.
Uh, then TIF 7, our latest TI, and also in Limestone County,
uh, Greenbrier Parkway extension, or old Highway 20 improvements and sewer
improvements, uh, that is going very well,
very ahead of schedule, uh, due to the mass amount of industrial projects
we've seen along that Greenbro Parkway corridor,
uh, the likes of Mazda, Toyota, Amazon, VTech,
uh, the list goes on and on that we're seeing out there.
So again, kind of in a, uh, nutshell here of,
of just kind of taking you through everything that has occurred in this
district.
So $70 million in new school improvements in all tips that the city has
created, $240 million in new public capital infrastructure projects from.
Uh, public facilities, public safety, roads,
uh, utilities, new private investments exceeding $8.5 billion.
I think that's the key of why you do tips and,
and the return on that investment.
A new tax base, uh, has been created out of these tips,
uh, generating $110 million annually.
So how does that break down?
$47 million of new revenue has been created for Huntsville City schools
annually.
$22 million for the city of Huntsville General Fund.
And just under $20 million for the Madison County Commission General Fund.
Those would be just in the TI districts have been closed.
Those revenue streams would not include any existing TIFF districts that
are open, so that number would only increase as we close those districts
out.
So I wanna walk you through uh what is in front of and been uh in the news
coming for the city council coming for Madison County commission.
It would be a new tipth District 9.
So T0th District 9 would create a new, uh,
tax district primarily consisting of the central portion of the city would
encompass about, uh, just under 3700 acres.
That is not the largest TI district we've created.
Um, North Huntsville and, and, uh, TI 6 and 7 were a little larger than
that.
Uh, all proposed activities by law and public work projects must take place
within the corporate limits of the city of Huntsville.
One of the reasons I want to point that out,
see a small black box in the central southern portion of that,
that map there, that's actually low ill, so that is a tax island.
Uh, I can tell you though, with some of the investments that we'd like to
do in this district, there has been discussions of that coming in being
annexed into the city.
Now what I want to point out there is, should that come into the city,
be annexed, and more investment happening there,
the TI district would not catch that new revenue that would go immediately
to the tax recipients.
So there's a benefit there of us being able to induce that or entice that
to come into the city, be an immediate plus up to all of our general fund.
Uh, the new TIFF District 9 contains properties that are currently underutilized
or underdeveloped, and we believe with the investments that I will show
you we can stimulate redevelopment and new private investment within this
proposed district.
Furthermore, the development and redevelopment there is located within this
district, uh, we don't believe can be fully realized without some of these
capital improvement projects.
Uh, we've had a good run downtown.
We really have.
I mean, you've seen new hotels, you've seen new multi-family,
uh, but we've about reached our limit of where private investment is willing
to go downtown without some new inducement,
some new interest that would drive more activity.
Uh, so the first project would be the largest project in the district,
uh, would be expansion of the North Hall of the Von Braun Center.
Uh, over the years we've delayed this project.
Um, we have taken capital funds out of the city's budget,
so graciously approved by the city council,
uh, to take and do small projects.
If you've been in the Von Braun Center at any time in the last couple of
years you've seen.
Improvements to hallways you've seen improvements to the existing,
uh, expansion of uh South Hall, the existing North Hall,
uh, what you don't see in the back is back of house improvements,
uh, but we're at an impasse, uh, with the Von Braun Center,
uh, so we have some very large conferences that come in,
uh, that have for the 3 straight years not been able to fulfill all the
people who want to participate in that.
So let me kind of tell you how conferences work.
Uh, let's take something like ASA where, um,
if you happen to stroll the halls, I know several council members did,

[00:50:03]
they were in every nook and cranny in the BBC.
Everywhere, anywhere they could put a booth,
they put a booth and sold a booth.
And they were short about 70 vendors that wanted to be there.
Now how conferences make money is based on being able to sell a booth.
So for 3 straight years, this is our largest defense contract conference
here that, as we know, Redstone Arsenal Research Park's lie below this economy.
Um, their inability to satisfy those has them potentially looking at,
should they continue here.
Um, we used to host Quad A here.
Same thing happened at Quad A.
It's now in, excuse me, in Nashville.
Um, is that a reason to expand North Hall?
Not necessarily, um, but we've run the math of.
What we know that front row would do in a in another phase,
what part of Huntsville Mall area in that redevelopment is,
is not moving forward without seeing that and some other properties in and
around the downtown area that we know would make a significant investment
that would help us all from a future tax base.
Uh, the North Huntsville Beltline Greenway,
we think that is a significant project to see redevelop along North Parkway,
uh, along Meridian Street and Church Street.
That area has um.
Not being kind to what I would say past infrastructure project,
mainly by LB, the widening of the parkway.
So what this does is create a new front door,
back door along the east side of the parkway.
Uh, we see a lot of underutilized properties there that we,
uh, in talking with people, we, we introduced this last year.
Anybody's been to Atlanta and seen the Atlanta Belt Line,
what that has done is probably the single most.
Uh, impactful project in the city of Atlanta's history,
I think, uh, had, you know, it's 30 years old,
but over $1 trillion of private investment.
Now this is not that linked, uh, but this would be the first phase for the
city of Huntsville.
We think it's the most important phase.
It, it connects into downtown.
It connects to Holmes Avenue that provides linkage between UAH,
Alabama A&M, Cummings Research Park, downtown,
all the way into John Hunt Park with a park project that is underway.
Uh, New Mill Creek Park, that's our Choice Neighborhood redevelopment project,
putting $5 million in a public park there,
we, uh, know that will help accelerate at least two phases of an eight-phase
project, uh, and allow that project to, uh,
know it will move forward in all phases.
That is also in partnership with Huntsville Housing Authority with private
investment.
All the new construction that that this would take place at Mill Creek would
be private, so it means you pay taxes.
So, uh, you know, much like City of Huntsville and and the school board,
you're tax exempt with Huntsville's, uh, housing authority,
but they will maintain the dirt so all vertical improvements will pay 58
mils tax regardless.
OK, so that can be a significant boost and,
and needle mover for all of us.
Low Avenue and Huntsville Junior High Improvement,
so.
Um, as you're aware.
Of your project with Huntsville Junior High Improvements,
there's, there's improvements that we need to do along low to make sure
that kids that want to walk to school and some pedestrian facilities there,
uh, but the remaining portion of, of those funds would be to the school
board, uh, to help, uh, facilitate the construction of Huntsville Junior
High.
We believe the city's portion of the road in public improvements is about
$1 million.
I leave about $4 million for city schools,
uh, to finish the construction of that project.
Uh, as talking with the Mass County commission,
uh, they are looking at what to do with the courthouse and how do they rebuild
courts, how do they rebuild their offices and,
and where they hold their meetings, um, we know that that process will be
lengthy, uh, and require some displacement.
Uh, so with the construction or in the completion of the federal courthouse,
uh, GSA, uh, donated, if you will, the, the former federal courthouse to
the city, uh, to be caretakers of it.
Uh, for the city, we, we don't have a purpose for it,
uh, so making $5 million in renovations to the former federal courthouse
to allow the county commission and or the courts move into there,
uh, as part of what they do with the future,
uh, current county courthouse facility.
So as we do this we also try to model what future tax revenues would look
like and and uh this comes from a variety of information,
information from private investment has that has made investments in their
downtown they still have properties and have chose for whatever reason not
to move forward with additional investments.
Areas that we know, uh, where these projects will be the highest and best
use is not what is there now.

[00:55:00]
Some of it's vacant land, some of it's distressed properties,
and we start to see based on zoning and in the top amenities that this TI
would place in there, we start modeling like-minded new projects.
So take homes at, uh, Clinton Avenue for instance.
If you go out to Stove House and you start to see that the top investments
being made there, if we can induce between Stove House back to the BBC.
We have, you know, data that shows when that building permit was pulled,
mainly it's for a multi-family or mixed use or a restaurant,
so we start to model that in certain spots and then we get a good capture
what that new private investment is most likely to be.
We do that for all TIFF districts.
We're very conservative with it.
Uh, what you've seen, uh, in that chart I showed you,
our conservatives, uh, part is to really make sure this thing doesn't last
30 years.
All, none of our TIFs, we've been very conservative on what that.
Backside investment would be because we want these things to pay off,
accelerate, get the projects done and get it closed.
That's the goal of our tests.
So let's get into numbers really quick and then I'll open up to questions.
So the gray shaded area that you see that is what we refer to as the 2025
baseline tax revenue that came from the Mass County Tax Assessor's Office.
So total for this district should city council and Mass County commission
approve, the baseline is just over $29 million.
That annual $29 million continues to get cut up and sent to all tax recipients.
The TI district captures not one penny of that.
So what does that mean this city council and and the school board,
uh, to the city of Huntsville it's just under $6.5 million.
You will continue to get that.
That's what the blue line is showing and,
and the white bar, uh, dots that you see every year that tax base is frozen.
It goes to, uh, Huntsville City, uh, council or,
or city general fund.
Uh, the green bar represents the Huntsville City Schools general fund just
under $11 million that continues to flow into Huntsville City Schools,
uh, just as if they won 1/5 district.
Then there's a dashed orange line there.
There's a countywide education tax.
It's currently at $2.9 million.
Now that can fluctuate how that gets distributed because it's based off
overall enrollment of Madison County and your percentage or Huntsville City
Schools percentage that overall enrollment's how that's cut up.
Uh, I didn't want to try to calculate that because it probably changes a
little bit each year, but just know that base that would get divided between
the, uh, three school systems would not change that $2.9 million continues
to flow out to those schools.
OK, so let's start looking at, OK, what if,
uh, the gray box at the bottom is, is that same $29 million.
The burnt orange line that you see is new tax revenue from the existing
tax base.
So what, what I mean by that?
So what that represents is a 3% increase by year every year for 30 years.
So what does that mean?
So let's say I have a piece of property it's worth $100 OK?
And the Mass County tax assessor in 2026 says it went up in value by 3%.
We don't determine that.
It may go up 0%, it could go up 5%, 7%.
They determine that.
That's what that would indicate that additional $3.
So the way we typically model that is we just do 3% inflation.
And, and, and we typically get over that long span pretty close,
uh, we've seen the tax assessor in recent year do,
you know, 5 to 6%, then one year be 1.5%,
but I think what we've seen if we model just 3% for inflation,
it gets pretty close, OK.
Then the blue that you see that is the new tax revenue.
Uh, that we projected in those green circles that I pointed of having new
capital investment that starts to occur.
If you notice in year one it's almost nothing,
right?
The far left, and then we think what we typically see is those 1st 36 months,
that 3 year time pan as we start to deploy this public improvements,
we see that capital investment start to come in.
And then as you see it ramp up, don't forget that that new investment also
is not immune to.
The adjusted tax rate, the, the, the inflation or whatever the tax assessor,
you know, if, if I place the project in year two.
And paid my taxes in year 3, I'm a new tax.
Participant But if they adjusted everyone's taxes by 3% in the district
because of inflation or whatever, that new tax bases also went up,
so that's why you see it on to the right.

[01:00:00]
It starts to really hook hook up, uh, to a vertical position as you get
in outer years because it's paying the same inflation.
It's not all just new tax coming on, but those big projects as they hit
once they're in the system, they get treated just like the,
the brown or the maroon, uh, part.
So I thought I'd make this a lot simpler just to what does it mean to the
school board.
So again I show that uh your $10.98 million of existing revenue that you
get annually that does not change.
During the life we we have projected that this tip would pay off in 14 years.
So on average, if I do a 10 year average of that 3% inflation of,
of your tax base, should the tax assessor every year take it 3%,
3%.
And I do that on average across that that term is about $408 million per
year or for the entire 14 years it's $6.3 million.
So now you start to put in the $5 million that that this fifth district
would deliver to the school board, it's almost budget neutral,
not quite, plus or minus a million dollars.
But what happens once we pay the tiff off,
uh, at upon closure year 15, that first year you would see an increase of
$7.68 million added to the 10.98 million.
So you go from 10.98 million and let's say that we did not pass the tip,
OK.
If you took the $10.98 plus the $400 million so about 11,
if we do nothing, about $11.3 million is where you'd be.
In 14 years Versus the 7.6 plus the 10.9,
you're just under 19.
So it's a plus up net of about $6.5 million a year once the TIFF is closed
out.
I'll take any questions and I'll go back to a slide.
I know I plowed through a lot, but I wanted to get the questions.
That was a lot of information.
Thank you, Shane.
Nobody does numbers like Shane does.
Uh, council members, I, and board members,
I'm sure you have questions.
Who wants to start.
By Mr.
Meredith.
We'll let the school board members.
Um, I have one.
Albert.
OK, so.
There are, if you, if you don't include the proposed TIF 8,
just based on the two TIFs that are open,
plus this proposed third one, it's about $406 million.
Of that $406 million only 5 of it is allocated to Huntsville City Schools.
Historically, the other TIFs were a lot smaller and,
and included schools.
Is there a reason that we're not using Education money to invest into education.
I think we are.
I, I think what.
Uh, I would argue, at least for this tiff,
or, or point out argues too strong of a word.
What you would give up in education funds is about $6.13 million for just
this Tiff.
What about the other two?
Let me, let me stay here.
We'll go back, OK?
So $6.13 million over four years if you took the NPV of that it's less than
5, right?
And this project has 5, this TI has $5 million to the school board for Huntsville
Junior High.
So to me it's almost a, a net zero impact right now let's go to TIFF six
and seven.
I think you go look at TIFF 6 and TIF 7.
Without the TIFF, there would not be.
About $3.5 billion of taxes on the tax roll because without Greenbrier Parkway,
without the utilities, there would be no Polaris,
no Amazon, no Mazda Toyota.
So all that was farmland.
I need to go back and look and I can follow up with Dustin and get you this
information so it's all accurate.
I would gauge that your revenue prior to those tiffs in that area were probably
less than $20,000 a year.
Because it was current use agricultural, there wasn't anything on it.
But they're not paid off yet, so we haven't reaped the benefit.
One of the two has, and the other one's accelerating,
but I guess the point I'm making is the revenue that you see TIF 7 producing
without the TI district, that revenue would not exist,
right?
But, and what I'm trying to reiterate is it does not exist to us yet and
it won't until the proposed payoff of 2047.
That that's the whole goal of a TIFF district,
right?
And I'm saying that's a generation, so, you know,
my 5th grader will be my age by the time some of these TIFs are proposed
to be paid off.
And is that really an investment into education?
Well, it will be.
I, I, the other way to look at it would be just don't do TIF 7 instead of
those multi-million dollars that will be coming to all school systems.

[01:05:03]
We could be splitting $25,000 if I can, Mr.
Davis, not to, not to cut you short here,
um, I think a, a different perspective that I'm looking at this from,
not to contradict or counteract Ms.
Alvarez's point because I think she's well rooted and versed in her disposition
that we want to make sure we're using education funds to invest in education.
I also agree with your disposition that we are here and I'll add an an.
An additional layer of perspective here, which is when we're talking about
tax assessed values and what's being captured in the TIFF,
we are strictly talking about property tax.
Is that correct?
We are not talking about sales tax, which sales tax is another revenue generator
for us, which TIF districts afford the city and the school district a direct
benefit by an increase in sales tax revenue,
primarily because when we talk about the private investment coming into
the tune of billions of dollars.
We're talking about the investment in property,
which more often than not in a district like this is generating additional
sales tax revenue.
So while we may not realize a return on investment from the property tax
perspective throughout the duration of the tip,
we are realizing immediate gains from the schools in an increase in sales
tax revenue generation.
Am I, would I be accurate in that assessment?
You would be correct.
One of the things I would point out is, is kudos to the school board.
You're in the middle of a $600 million capital plan,
right?
I would argue the tips that I showed you are closed.
You would not be in a position where you're at today without those tips,
creating those new private investments, getting them closed out,
and that revenue flowing to you.
I, I just, with all the growth that's happened in Huntsville without $8.5
billion of private investments now paying school taxes,
they're paying city taxes, they're paying county taxes without those TIF
districts.
It wouldn't be nowhere near that.
Would it be something?
Absolutely, you know, a billion dollars, $2 billion we could argue that,
but it's nowhere close to $8.5 billion.
So speaking of the capital plan, we have anticipated a certain level of
growth in our capital plan to fund it.
Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Recognition, I'm sorry without being recognized.
Let's make sure Ms.
Alvarez has had a chance to finish, um, to finish her thoughts.
Did you have any other questions?
All right, Miss.
OK, sorry.
Speaking about the capital plan, obviously we'd anticipated a certain level
of growth within our capital plan to fund that,
and that included city growth without this tip district because we were,
I guess, unaware of it.
So one thing is what sort of prompted this.
It seems like it was a little bit sudden.
And second, uh, I guess that might be something for Dustin also is that
still without capturing, uh, any growth in this district,
which is a fairly large district, um.
Are we confident that we're still gonna meet the goals of our capital plan
as far as growth, um, and also if, uh, you said something about the private
investors weren't cautious about this district,
they didn't want to continue investing in it.
So why just the city?
So those are my probably three compound questions.
All great questions.
So we try to follow those in order.
If I missed one, please repeat it, OK?
Uh, so the first, I think your capital plan working with Dustin is secure.
Again, this 10 point just call $11 million is still gonna flow to you,
um, the, you know, $408,000 per year if you will,
uh, NPV is probably about $4.6 million.
This, this, this plan has $5 million direct allocation to you,
so we essentially cover that for you.
So everything in blue is just new money that would come.
So, uh, the district, uh, was larger.
As we looked, we looked at areas that we know are going to grow in North
Huntsville and, and further south, so we've shrunk it.
Uh, originally it went, uh, north of Oakwood and went to Airport Road,
so we pulled it all the way back up to Drake Avenue,
uh, and, and actually went further west, uh,
really to just west of Jordan Lane.
So we've shrunk it to the west, shrunk it to the south,
and shrunk it to the north, and there's not exact science to that,
so.
It, it's kind of a push or pull of how big of an area to capture to accelerate
paying this thing off as fast as possible and get you that just $7.7 million
or make it as small as possible and painful for all of us to carry out for
30 years.
What we've typically done is try to accelerate it as quickly as possible
to close and let everybody start getting this new revenue.
And if I miss one, please bring it back up.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, again, if we're like private investors are cautious,
why are we not, why is the city willing to risk it?
Well, I, I, it's through our office having conversation with private investment.
Uh, take the front row for instance.
Uh, they've only done one phase of 4.
I do know of a multi-story building.

[01:10:01]
If you look at some of the renderings on AL.com,
there's a 22-story complex office building with convention style hotel and
condos.
Without more conferences coming here, that building doesn't happen.
Should we announce the North Hall expansion,
we know that building moves forward.
That's a significant move the needle in this TIth district to accelerate
payoff on it.
Uh, also other hoteliers, uh, that have seen where their ADR and where their
oxy rate is downtown with the new hotels,
they know with more conventions, the expansion of the North Hall is not
just to handle.
The large convention we can't cover now, but it's like able to have two
in one week, you know, split the Von Barnes Center up,
uh, much like other, uh, convention centers in Southeast United States where
the CBB and the BBC or the Sports Commission,
they can all be recruiting those type of events here on the same week,
you know, a lot of times you take, uh, a USA for instance,
we lose 3 weeks with a one week conference.
That's the most important conference we hold.
It's Redstone Arsenal Research Park, but they lose the week before for everybody
to load in.
They lose the week of the commission going on,
and then it's almost a week after for everybody to load out.
So, so that one conference almost cost you a month worth of sales tax and,
and different revenue streams that that we all could benefit from.
Um, but it's, it's really working with those tailor that,
that own property downtown that says, look,
there's just not enough demand.
You gotta go create more demand, and I'll create more investment.
That's really the whole intent of a TIF district.
Um, give an example for TIF 6 in Limestone County,
we strictly did it because Polaris coming.
We knew what that capex was.
We knew we needed to get utilities and a road built or they weren't coming
because the road didn't exist.
It's just all farmland in the middle of nowhere.
The reason they accelerated and paid off so quick is once we put those utilities
in that road in 300, 3 other industry located on there.
It just burned off in a matter of a couple of years.
That's what's happened with TI-7 with Mazda Toyota since that time.
Mazda Toyota put 2.6 billion.
We've already exceeded to 4 billion there.
So, so again, it's go prime the pump, make these small investments,
and then watch it accelerate.
That's the whole premise behind the Alabama Constitution of tax increment
financing.
Great question.
Council members, I think Mr.
Meredith, you have a question and then Mr.
Kling.
Um, Mr.
Davis, could you define what you mean by payoff?
Payoff would mean that all debt if we issue bonds,
which we most likely do, uh, have been closed or paid off.
Uh, what usually happens in acceleration format is,
um, again I'll do simple math, OK?
Bond payments $10 a year.
At the first part of it, the tip district may only produce $2.
City's capital plan will make up that other $8.
We don't ask any of your deferred tax receipts,
say, hey, this tip district's small.
Will you give us some money to pay this $10 debt.
We cover it.
But then as the years progress, it starts producing 12 $15.20.
That's how you accelerate paying the debt off.
But once it's closed.
It is the debt is paid off.
The TI must be closed.
That new revenue that was paying that debt service or accelerating that
payoff now gets divided amongst the tax recipients.
Thank you.
You mentioned how, uh, the tax assessor may raise the,
uh, the, the, the tax or, or the, you know what I'm trying to say,
yes, the evaluation.
Um, it's my understanding now we are limited to 7%,
uh, increase in any given year.
That is, does the tax creation of a TIFF.
Does that limit of 7% still apply, or, or can they raise it 10 to 12% if
they want?
I hadn't thought about that.
It's a very good question.
No, it would be limited by Alabama law, which is that 7%,
uh, but we, you know, the this council, the mayor,
Mass County commission, even, you know, we have no bearing on that.
That's actually falls in the hands of the tax assessor.
But you, you're correct, it doesn't change any laws that set any,
uh, limit, districts or accounts we were,
and this just to answer your question, um,
as we were.
Uh, is that that law was being put in place.
We talked to, um, the lieutenant governor who was pushing that,
and, uh, he was able to pull out most of the TFT districts,
uh, out of, out of that, uh, that legislation.
So I don't think that the TI districts will be,
uh, will be hindered in those.
Yeah, I, I appreciate what you're trying to do by answering the question,

[01:15:00]
but I would more greatly appreciate not being interrupted when I have the
floor.
He was just did not have the floor.
I understand he was trying to answer my question,
but he interrupted me while I had the floor.
Do you have any other questions?
I do have questions.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Um, For a 5th district you need 50% of the district to be considered blighted
is my understanding.
Is that correct?
The, the law actually changed this session.
What is it?
What was it adjusted to that can exceed more than 50% is the way the,
the law was written.
Certainly there's not a, it didn't say, you know,
no more than 70, just said it, it, they took the,
I guess my point is, but we've ran that math and this does comply if that,
if you could pull up a map, show me where the blighted parts are.
Well, there's 6, actually 6 points of a TIF statute.
Uh, blight is one of those, but also, also economic distressed or,
uh, properties that are not in its highest and best use based on zoning
and, and it's, uh, adjacent tax values.
So there's a, a whole series of, I call them the six TI statutes or warrants
if you will.
The, the one that you mentioned being blight is just one of those six.
Can you show me what would be considered blight in this tax?
Well, it, it's according to what your definition of blight is.
Blight can be, uh, for instance, a, a tax value that is,
I'm gonna make up easy math again, OK?
I like easy math.
Yeah, $100 is, is this property's value.
You know, 2 parcels over the value is 20,000,
so that is a piece of distressed or undervalued piece of property not in
its highest and best use.
And roughly if you could use your mouse, where in this this mouse.
I, I would say a, a large portion is up in this area here.
Uh, certainly around the Holmes Avenue in the low mill areas we're seeing
some reinvestment, uh, but most of those properties have not really changed
in its use in probably 567 decades, and then in and around the downtown
district area it would be the vacant properties or,
uh, you know, 2nd, 3rd, 4th generation top,
top buildings that are, uh, underserved as far as its rent roll rates,
um, uh, you know, it, it's.
It's kind of hard to give you a parcel by parcel description of those,
but we did work with GIS to to run some of that.
OK, um, we can talk offline and then finally I just wanna encourage you
to talk with the, uh, Madison County Commission.
I know they're pretty concerned about what this TIF would do in terms of
the effect on both Madison City and Madison County,
uh, school systems, and we, we have those numbers.
I got, uh, final preliminary numbers from,
uh, Cliff Mann's office on Friday.
I've actually, uh, sent that to Jeff Rich today,
uh, and they were, there was some confusion of some numbers the county commission
had run.
And they, I will tell you they were 10x what they thought it was.
So, so I think a lot of that has been subsided today.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome, sir.
Mr.
Clean.
Uh, Mr.
Davis, uh, based upon past history, do you feel that the numbers that you're
projecting on the, uh, New, um.
TI 9 is, uh, conservative, excessive, uh,
I mean, what do you think the ultimate outcome is going to be?
I do, Councilor McLean, as I said, uh, by statute,
a TI district can last 30 years.
Right now, based on, you know, the, the 2014 capital plan that will see
the TIF district in the early years, meaning the debt service versus the
tax revenue coming in, they don't match, meaning this,
the city will actually write a check for those debt service payments in
early years, uh, and which accelerates the payoff,
right?
Uh, it's why all these work.
Uh, but right now we're modeling in a conservative manner between year 14
and year 15 this closes out, so there would be a chance,
and we're not trying to, you know.
Sugarcoat it.
There could be a chance that based on your projections,
if it's like other tips that we've had, the school system may be getting
more, uh, perhaps quicker than the 30 year payout that this thing is built
into.
Is that an exam is that reasonable?
That's right.
Uh, the, the number that, let me go back to here.
So again this number is based on year 14 to 7.6 million,

[01:20:00]
but let's say let's just pick a number, uh.
Let's say it was your.
11, that number is 6.9 million.
OK, but then as inflation happens those years you get to this number,
so the, the number would be a little less because the TIFF is not as mature,
but it would start early.
So you're correct.
That's a long way of saying yes.
OK, thank you.
Any other council members have Ms.
Watkins?
Good evening.
Thank you, Mr.
Davis for that presentation.
Um, can you tell us how does the city currently support Huntsville City
schools and how do we go above state mandated funding?
As far as the finances piece, I may ask Penny Smith,
who can go through 6.5 mils and the 22.5 mils,
would you like to speak on that, and the capital plans?
Um, good afternoon, Penny Smith, director of finance.
So a couple of ways we've been, we contribute to the Huntsville City schools
and to their bottom line.
Um, first is already mentioned the sales and use tax that comes through
the city.
Um, 14, 14% of 3.5% goes through, goes to the city school system directly
each month.
And, um, and that is remitted to our schools.
There is a trip at the end of the year so that,
so that tax base goes, goes to there and goes forward for that.
The, um, also the capital plan, so there's 6.5 millions,
um, that is contributed to our general fund.
6.5 millions goes directly to the school system for the furtherance of education
and, um, and that is utilized, um, but it really in two ways,
um, it's, it's it, it's the vast majority of it is utilized for capital
and to payment of debt that is issued by the school system,
um, I'm sorry, by the city.
Um, for, for all the school system things,
but, um, capital plans, but then also sometimes there are payments like
land or the purchase of something like that that is a direct withdrawal
from that, um, from that corpus that goes back to,
to the school system for, for those capital purchases.
In addition to that, there are numerous other ways that both are,
um, from, from capital from the capital projects that are that are put in
the ground, both of our capital plans benefit the school systems in various
ways due to from sewer systems to things that we help with on various capital
plan various projects and things like that across the city.
Um, roads that, uh, that are repaired or,
or pushed through for the school system that are requested by that specifically
and then also our city council has contributed to the school system in various
ways through their own, um, discretionary plans that they have in place.
I don't know if I'm missing anything.
If I'm missing one thing.
Oh, I'm missing the appropriation that's,
that goes through every year for books as well.
Ms.
Watkins, did that answer your question?
It did, but I need Mr.
Davis to come back up.
Thank you, Ms.
Smith.
So I think it was probably was it 2 months ago when the Eli Lilly announcement
came through, uh, late November, early December.
So, it's been that long.
Yeah, time flies.
Time flies.
Well anyway, um, I received a call from Mayor Battle's,
uh, secretary to ask me to come meet with him in his office,
and you were there, and I wanna thank both of you because when I got there
you said you're gonna be happy.
That sounds like, well, what this is about,
that's what I was thinking in my head and one of the things you shared in
the mayor as well, which I thank both of you for is,
you know, with all the development that's coming out of District 5,
even though it's not in my district, it's still,
it is a compliment to Huntsville City Schools that land was donated and
money will be allocated.
To, uh, build a school out there with all the development coming,
so I wanna thank you for that as well as I wanted it to be noted in February
Huntsville City of Huntsville closed out to 24,
and 6, and we presented a $5.5 million dollar check to Doctor Sutton here
in council chambers.
So I will say this.
When I first got here I, I was talking a lot about funding for Huntsville
City Schools, but I do know that the city council and the mayor is committed
to doing what's best for Huntsville City Schools and helping them with these
facilities and the growth that we have so I thank you for that,
but my next comment is gonna be.
I know that we have planning commission and I know that I think Mr.

[01:25:00]
Renard is the representative for Huntsville City Schools,
but um, are we communicating clearly about the growth and the expansion
and how is it going back to Huntsville City Schools and I guess that's a
question for Mr.
Reynaud because when I was on the council I wasn't getting this information
I mean on school board and I think it's extremely important that we're communicating
this information.
And that we have this dialogue because it's especially important,
especially with the growth and expansion and how city schools is prepared.
It's a great question.
Um, let me unpack some of that, uh.
I'll be the first to admit 5 years ago, probably not so much we were disseminating
the right information and doing it timely.
Um, I'd say over the last 5 years, uh, we've done a really good job,
uh, and a lot of that is information we didn't have.
It was, it was not as advanced, not as automated as,
as we, we bought a lot of programs and inspection department,
a lot of shuttle programs and engineering planning,
so that data is now at our fingertips, so we're able to.
Uh, compile it with Mr.
Vandiver and Thomas Nunez, the city engineer,
and, and we're able to get that and get it in a way not only for you to
understand as a school board but for us to understand and developing capital
plans.
So it's just the really the advancement of the tools our staff has.
We've always had that data, but if you would have asked for it,
you know, probably 57 years ago, it would have took someone going through
filing cabinets of paper and permits and try to.
You know, key all that in Excel and, and hopefully give you some snapshots.
So we've gotten much better at that.
We'll continue to evolve and get better.
Uh, we can pretty much give it to you on a month to month basis now.
I mean, we get a roll up every month.
Uh, but you know, you do bring up a good point in Limestone County and our
partnerships, uh, you know, the, the central office,
the new tech school, uh, you know, that came out of the capital plan,
as Ms.
Penny said, of just under $5 million.
Uh, we've worked with, uh, Dustin and the team.
Where's the best location for a new school in Limestone County?
We don't want you to build two campuses, one on the north side of the interstate,
one on the south side, and be coming back to you,
you know, with 2000 more lots 10 years from now and say,
hey.
Uh, man, that school would have been 3 miles the other way,
but it's just not.
You gotta have that.
So we worked with that, found out where it should be,
that said, OK, you can have one school district here to handle the next
30 years out here, you know, may need a wing addition,
but it's not build this campus and then go up here 10 years from now and
build another campus.
And then we've worked with landowner such that to get 126 acres for the
school board at no cost.
Uh, now we're making capital investments out there,
bringing utilities and improving some roads that,
yes, the landowner will benefit down the road,
but that benefit we transferred to the school board,
uh, and TIF 8 we're starting to model that,
but there's a very good likelihood, uh, that that TIFF will include a,
a K-88 school that you're already budgeting your $600 million.
If that comes to fruition, whatever you were gonna spend on that KH,
you can go spend somewhere else in the school.
District.
OK, so, so we're working, we're working really hard.
I, I feel like we got a good partnership.
Um, tips are hard.
I mean that, uh, there, there's, you know,
different ways to look at it.
I, I think historically it showed we've been able to build educational facilities,
build public infrastructure, get them closed,
and then see everybody benefit.
All three school systems, Madison County,
Limestone County Commission.
I remember, uh, I called Chairman Day of Limestone County Commission when
we closed TF 6 and And, uh, I don't remember his number,
but I called him and said, hey, we're closing till 6,
and here's the amount to Limestone County schools.
Here's meant to the county commission.
He said, Man, we could really use that this year.
I said, Well, commissioner, it's that plus every year following.
And he's like, this is like a blessing.
And then the superintendent of Limestone County Schools called because Chairman
Daley gave him my cell number.
He's like, OK, walk me through this again.
I said, we closed them out.
Here's your check.
It's a partial tax year because we closed it out,
not, you know, somewhere in the middle.
Call Penny and got the, the actual number for the next year and call that
back.
That's collaborative partnership, um.
I mean it's right or wrong.
I, I think we could all could debate that,
but I think long term if we really look down the road,
uh, we've shown past success, and I really think we'll show future success
and continue this trend.
Well, I'm really, I'm not done.
I'm really excited about this meeting today because it shows that Huntsville
City Schools and the city of Huntsville is collaborating and communicating
for the benefit of our city and well as our schools and students.
Um, I have another question for you, Shane,
um.
Are we communicating with Huntsville City schools when it comes to the skill
sets that's needed for our upcoming graduates,
being that we have a state of the art career tech center?
I know you know businesses industry drive our workforce.
Are we communicating those needs to Huntsville City schools?

[01:30:01]
I think so.
Uh, you know, our workforce development team,
but the chamber works very closely to all our school system,
our two-year colleges or four-year colleges.
I've got to tour that new facility.
Kudos to this board.
Uh, I can't wait to see the programs that keep coming out of it,
but, uh.
Before that facility was built.
We were behind, uh, no, no disrespect to anybody up here,
uh, but, you know, what AIDT was having to do,
what Calhoun was having to do, uh, we sent a lot of people to Limestone
Career Tech Center.
It was one of the best in the state.
They can't say that anymore.
Kudos to this board.
Uh, the facility that you have put on the ground is absolutely phenomenal,
and the programs will only get better.
Uh, we, we see it every day.
I mean, last year, very, very quietly in this community.
Uh, we, we created about 5000 jobs.
You know, it wasn't a Mazda Toyota that we announced them all at once.
But of those almost 73% you can get with a high school diploma or GED with
a little bit of tech training and go make $67,000 a year.
Uh, so that facility will bring benefits to this community for generations
to come.
So kudos to you guys for having that vision.
We're glad that we were a part of it.
Don't forget Michelle Watkins was on that board that got that career tech
Center approved.
I, I fussed about it every day.
Beth can say it.
She sat next to me.
Uh, I do have, um, another comment though.
I know that there has been a lot of talk on Facebook about the BBC and this
TI, but this is the reality.
Um, I've attended several conferences.
Being on the council, you get invited to conferences.
I went to the SMDC, which is one of the largest conferences we have at the
civic center, and last year they were really excited because Golden Dome
was discussed, and there are so many government agencies and contractors
there and when I went last year they took me through and was touring.
We are so out of space that people were in hallways with their display booths.
Hallways and little side entrances they fit them in everywhere they could
because they had actually ran out of space and um I know when you're trying
to attract large conferences to the city you gotta have um hotel space as
well as you have to have space at your facility and I know that one organization
did not come because we didn't have enough breakout rooms and they passed
homes for.
For that reason, so I totally understand the BBC expansion um,
our city has grown and if we want to attract,
um, seminars and workshops and events to this city that are of a magnitude
that we want to show that Huntsville can handle it,
we have to have that space available at the BBC but at no time is the schools
being slighted, not at all.
Education is still at the forefront of the thoughts of this city.
And I do have to say that we are dedicated to working with Huns City schools
to ensure that that happens, so thank you Shane.
I don't think anyone in this room other than council members and the mayor
and people that work at the city really understand the job that Shane does.
Shane works 7 days a week.
And not only that, at any time you call him,
y'all might call him at 2 or 3 o'clock in the afternoon,
8 or 9 o'clock at night, Shane is calling me back because he has been too
busy to return a phone call.
So thank you, Shane.
You're too kind.
I'm just one of many.
Mayor Battle, I know you have some thoughts on all of this.
Please share those with us.
Thank you and uh thank you to the council for uh having this and thank you
for the school board for joining us with this.
I think this is one of the most important conversations we can have.
We are no better than our education system.
We cannot grow.
We cannot, uh, prosper unless we have a good education system,
and we've all got to work with that work together to make sure that we have
that education system.
Uh, back when we did, uh, Tiff, was it 6 with,
uh, uh, Toyota Mazda, uh, 7 when we did TI 7,
former superintendent came to me and said,
I'm gonna oppose that because I don't like you taking away the revenues
that I'm gonna have in the future off that land.
And, and, um, I, I had to explain to him,
and I said, you know, you've got to realize,
I mean, this is something, this is a, uh,
the $3 billion investment that's gonna be happening with that land,
that $3 billion investment, once it's, uh,
once the debt's paid off, uh, for what the TIFF,
uh, the TI process was, uh, it brings in $17 million a year.
That 2400 acres that's sitting out there is,
uh, taxed at, uh, rural farm rates, $750 an acre.
And then it's then it's taxed at 10% of their assessed values.

[01:35:03]
So each acre of that land out there, that 2400 acres is taxed at $75 an
acre.
You put that $75 an acre together and you got a total assessment of $180,000
which is what that land would be, uh, assessed for today if,
um, if we had not done Mazda Toyota.
$180,000 versus 4 $3 billion.
Uh, that $180,000 would, would, uh, give us,
what do you think, Shane, about, um, uh, about 88 $8000 9000 dollars a year,
1800 to $19,000 a year.
Right now that, that property is, uh, kicking off about $17 million a year
that is going back into our school systems and back into our community.
Um, you know, we've got to remember and take the long look,
and that's what Huntsville's always been good at taking that long look,
looking ahead 1520, 25 years and seeing what it's gonna do to us and how
it's gonna make us a better community, um,
you know, uh, uh, we, we had our conversation and I think we were able to,
uh, needless to say we were able to do the tip.
And as we did the TIF, uh, we watched it very closely,
and, uh, today I think that it has been a great partnership with the school
board, with the school administration, uh,
with everybody, and I, as, uh, as a citizen of Huntsville.
But also as a mayor, I also wanna thank each of you for the job that y'all
have done to make sure that we have a great education system and that we're
able to pay for that great education system.
No other system across the state is able to put $600 million into a capital
plan right now to have better schools, better,
uh, and better facilities for their, uh, for their young students.
And as we do that we'll see the, we'll see the long,
the long game of that we'll see in 1015, 2025 years we'll,
we'll see each year we'll see a gain in our community and the prosperity
of our community keep on, uh, coming in day after day after day,
and it'll be because of the decisions that y'all have made and the work
that y'all have done.
Over the past, thank each of you for your efforts,
counsel, thank you for your efforts in this.
This is a long play.
I mean, it's a play for a long term, but the long term is that we benefits
our community and benefits our children long long term.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mayor Battle.
Mr.
Renott, thank you, Doctor Robertson.
I just, uh, Councilwoman Watkins wanted to answer one brief question you
had directed is, um, and I'm confident my board colleagues will attest to
this, but they get no less than 3 emails from me every month,
being the planning commission agenda, zoning subcommittee agenda,
and then, um.
The subdivision subcommittee agenda.
So, um, while the communications are indirect,
but they are forwarded each and every month,
so it's not a full breakdown, but they at least get the agenda items for
each subcommittee as well as the planning commission.
And just so I can give you all your flowers while we're up here in person,
um, there was one omission of how the city of Huntsville does support Huntsville
City schools in the, the recent passage of the SSUT.
Memoran or, uh, ordinance.
So there is a share of SSUT revenue above and beyond that 20,750 annual
allocation.
So thank you all for that as well.
Miss, miss, um.
Ms Ms.
Smith did mention that she said the sales and use tax,
uh-huh, she did, yeah, and I was actually referring to my time on the council
because during my, I mean on the board during my time on the board,
a lot of times things were not being communicated like they should have
and I just feel that the city is growing too fast for communication to lapse
so uh, it's great that the city of Huntsville and Hunts City Schools is
now communicating on that.
And I would add to that, Mr.
Matthews has asked for that yearly report as we have had tonight,
not just the regular development review, but that very granular view down
to permits and certificates of occupancy.
I would simply add to what's been said tonight.
I, when I was on the school board, it was right after TIF 2 had been created,
so I got to see that grow.
But then I was there for TIF 3, TIF 3A, TIF 4,
and I had the same concerns that have been expressed here tonight,
but it was recognizing that.
You can take a short term view or you can take a long term view and that
long term view, and I didn't realize it until you shared the,
the information tonight is $47 million to Huntsville City schools annually,
is that correct?
As a result of that, that comes in as a result of growth in those tax districts.
It was 22 million to the city, 19 to the county,
and 47 million, twice as much as what goes into the city operating budget,

[01:40:00]
um, as a result of the payoff from those tips.
So we really are looking at this as a mayor said the long game,
the return on investment is what we're making for our children's future
and that future focus is really what this is all about.
That's what the meeting is about today.
Um, making those investments.
Um, Mr.
Matthews, any comments from you?
You have been very quiet tonight.
Been quiet for a reason.
Just wanted to listen to hear what we had to say on all of this information.
One of the things I will say is, is that as the federal and state move money
around for education, having a strong local economy for our citizens and
our students is important.
And playing the long game to make sure that we're doing the right thing
of now getting schools built, but also in the future bringing revenue in
for those schools and for the city is important.
Um, I think for Huntsville to have that local strong economy,
that is our future.
Because at the state and federal level we don't have control over that and
we're not sure where those things are gonna land.
But here in the city we have an opportunity to work with our city council
to make sure that we're doing the right things for our students and our
citizens here in Huntsville.
So I'm very excited for us to have had this meeting and been able to work
together to, to get this going for our school system and our city.
Thank you, Mr.
Matthews, and I, I believe Ms.
Alvarez wants to make one last.
Um, so I had two clarifying questions after listening.
TI 7 is not paid off correct.
The Toyota, it is not.
So we are not, we are not getting $17 million a year as stated.
I don't think Mayor Biles said you're getting 17.
He said it's producing that, which is rapidly going to the schools,
and, and the 17 million would be divided between Limestone County Commission,
City of Huntsville, and the two school districts out there.
And we'll get that to Dustin in the morning so you'll have that information.
Great.
I just wanted to clarify that we have not received 17 million annually from
that investment yet.
Um, the other is if you'll go back to your chart where you're determining.
Our investment is only the 400 million or 400,000 a year.
So earlier you said, OK, so the 7.68 windfall in 2014.
You then went to your charts that you're looking at and said that if it
paid off and Uh, 11 years instead of 14 years,
that it would be 6 million.
So how can we not lose 6 million.
If we could have gained it.
Lose 6 million.
So if the windfall after 11 years was 6 million with the new investments,
so you're saying as soon as it's paid off,
it's a huge spike in that's value instantly.
That's right.
OK, no different than when Tiff 6 paid off.
As one of the council members said, you got a check for $5.5 million instantly,
and you'll get it the next year and the next year,
next year, right?
And I understand that.
But so this would be similar to that.
So, but that's not a 3% attrition rate.
So I'm saying, when does it switch from 3% to these higher rates that if
you would have paid it off, it'd be $6 million.
Let's see where we're going.
So I just don't know how we didn't lose $6 million by you not paying it
off, and it would have been $6 million between years 11 and 14 with an attrition
rate.
So I just don't understand the math of.
So let me walk through that a little bit.
So the gray Center, the 400 and just call it $409,000 there.
That is 3% increase on the 10.8% over 14 years,
OK, so you're probably guaranteed that if a tip's not happening,
OK, because that existing tax base, the tax assessor is going to adjust
that value and reassess taxes, and everybody's gonna pay their taxes.
So based on that 3% per year that's been historically the average,
if you take that over 14 years it's $6.13 million.
OK, now let's get, now let's, now let's go to the blue there.
So what is the percent you're thinking this isn't,
it's almost doubling.
So let's go to the blue.
So that is investment that has not occurred in this city.
It's not an adjustment of somebody's property value.
It has not been built and would get built and come on the tax rolls for
the very first time.
So let's say something happens in 2026, 2027,
it pays its property tax.
Year one of the actual property tax, we pay property tax one year in the
arrears.
So ain't something got built.
From there forward for the next 14 years,
whatever that initial value of new property tax that was generated in the
TF district is also getting that 3% escalation.
So you go take 20 of those projects plus its escalation,
it's definitely got a very vertical growth period versus a 3% growth period

[01:45:00]
on existing property.
So that's why there's such a drastic difference there.
And so there's.
There's enough Plain land in that TI district to almost double in value
we we believe in so 30 years.
And if you look at the ones that have paid off in 6 years and 8 years with
the 30 years they've paid off 300%.
And we're only doing, we're only doing a 2 x here undeveloped land,
and that's why I'm not necessarily if you look at North Huntsville's district
with North Huntsville Industrial Park, a large percentage of that district
was existing to the south, right?
So, and so I think another point is.
While I do understand your math, as those developers come on and as it develops
within those 14 years, we're not seeing those gains.
And I understand that, we wouldn't have seen them regardless,
but I think it is a point to say we are probably losing more than 400K a
year because we're not also reaping anything new that does develop.
Because it also has to go towards the debt.
And so I just want to be very clear that while I do understand the windfall
and the long term investment, we also aren't getting the short term gains.
And as Ms.
Watkins said about the BBC being not enough room,
we are feeling that at Providence where our kids are in classrooms that
are formerly closets.
We also do feel the growth without the windfall coming on time with it.
And I think that's just my point of view is,
um, while I do understand this, and I think it's beneficial in the long
run.
We would also like some more short term assistance with the city to help
us with the growth.
OK, that, that's fair.
One of the things I will point out to your analogy I don't disagree with.
TI District 9 is gonna be different than that analogy because it is in a
central business district where the other TIs have been suburban areas are
outlined to where you could get a 600 lot subdivision with 5000 to $600,000
dollar houses and have 4000 of those houses or,
you know, 500 acre.
Farmland to get a $2 billion investment on it,
um, so, so those would, you know, that I would argue and agree with you.
That the incremental increase if it was in Hampton Cove or Providence or
somewhere, yeah, there's probably gonna be 4 or 5 subdivisions if we don't
do anything that we get developed and that's brand new tax.
It's a little different and we model that we,
we do model that in those type scenarios like TIF 8 that we're proposed
in Limestone County.
We can show you some of that data and say,
OK, look, this would have probably occurred,
so we gotta take that out of this bump up.
In the central business district, because you don't have that type of acreage
to, to make that natural growth of residential,
it's a little different.
But, but I do agree with you in that settlement if this was not in a downtown.
Mr.not, I believe you have a question.
Yeah, just to talk about the vertical curve on the latter half of this.
So I mean 90% of this is within District 4.
it's also happened in my neighborhood where I live and eat,
sleep, and play is in the heart of this because I'm bad about getting out
of my bubble.
Um, to Shane's point, there's not a lot of,
a lot of, there is undeveloped land, you know,
you look up and down the Lehman Ferry corridor which is in its early,
early stages of redevelopment.
And then you look at stuff like stadium Commons,
which is a new ground up build to suit development,
but you know, if you were to look at the tax assessed value of a project
like Stadium Commons two years ago before they went vertical versus today,
you're talking about quadrupling 8x potentially of what that assessed value
is, and that's what you're gonna see a lot of,
particularly along the parkway corridor where you've got.
Observation, not a criticism of any property owners,
but you have a lot of dilapidated retail and office spaces that right now
you could see values anywhere from $500,000 up to $1.5 million for a half
acre.
And those are gonna be tear down opportunities for private developers.
You're gonna come in and build a 510 $15 million dollar multi-story office
and retail.
And so that vertical curve he's talking about is,
it's, it's gonna take a couple of years, but it's,
it's gonna be significant in the latter half of that.
If I can add, he, Mr.
Reynard just brought up something when someone asked about the,
the boundary, you bring up a really good point with Stadium Commons in its
first phase with 3 more phases to go in around John Hunt Park.
Our original boundary captured that, and we took it out.
So as that continues to be on the fringe of this district and continue to
see accelerated because of conference space in the hotels,
that is new revenue will all this council,
this, the school board will see immediate because we,
we've carved that out of this district.
So that was where we were trying to be intentional,
not to say, OK, well, this would help further accelerate it,
you know, we wanted to give some of that growth to be coming on the tax
rolls immediately.
Mr.
Matthews.
Yeah I'll just add to that, so you know, while that $408,000 that we're

[01:50:00]
seeing there, we're not seeing that revenue come in to the school district,
when you look at it, it's really a wash.
It's actually, it's really a wash.
With the donated land and uh District 5 that's out there plus the actual
funding that we're gonna be able to get from the schools from the city to
help fund that, that completely dwarfs this $408,000 very easily.
Uh, so.
While it looks like we're not doing anything there,
but the city has made that effort to make sure that we're good on that area
in fact that take care of that.
That also gives the superintendent, our CFO to look at the funding that
we were going to use for that school, where we can place that in other areas
for our academic needs throughout our school district uh to fund that out.
So I think that uh, you know.
Number wise, yes, I can understand it.
It makes sense, but when we look at what was done with the mayor and the
city council to donate, get that lane donated and that funding for District
5 for that school, that really is gonna help the situation with Providence
and Williams and so forth as we go along.
So I think we're, I feel like we're in a good spot with that,
but I, I, Ms.
Alberts, I do understand your concern.
Mr.
Klain.
I think we're getting close to wrapping things up.
I just want to say I think this was a very positive meeting.
You've got 11 elected officials and 1 school superintendent all coming together
to talk about literally hundreds of millions of dollars of some pretty important
issues.
And, uh, I think, uh, we've traveled around other cities and what we have
here, you don't see too often.
And I think it's.
Glad to work with the school board, my fellow council members,
the staff, the mayor, the superintendent,
and, uh, I think this is something that Huntsville can be proud of and I
hope we can continue to do this type of meeting maybe once a year.
Thank you, Mr.
Kling.
I, I couldn't agree with you more.
uh, I appreciate the partnership.
That we have and I've, Mr.
Matthews and I have talked about it over the last few months as we've tried
to put this meeting together, that this is a meeting that I think demonstrates,
I know that the superintendent and the mayor,
that the finance directors meet together regularly,
um, but I think we each all have our own partners that we,
that we're, we've been working closely with and this is a great demonstration
of that.
So Mr.
Matthews, thank you for working with me to put it together.
Doctor Sutton, Mayor Battle, thank you for what you do to,
to help ensure that partnership continues as well and to the board members
and council members, thank you for all you each contribute as well.
um, hope we can do this again.
Um, many thanks to everybody who made this happen,
uh, the council staff, the school system staff,
we appreciate your efforts and unless there are any other comments,
we are adjourned.
Thank you all for joining us.
